Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then     View saved recipes . Close Alert fish Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events My Saved Recipes More To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then     View saved recipes Close Alert Sign In Search Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events Video My Saved Recipes Fish Tuna-Mayo Onigiri This is one of the most basic onigiri recipes. It also revolutionized the onigiri world. By  Ai Watanabe  and  Samuel Trifot Vuelve a la Vida (“Come Back to Life” Seafood Cocktail) This Mexican seafood cocktail gets its name because it is tossed with a bracing mix of tart, pungent, and spicy ingredients. By  Pati Jinich Caldo de Oso (Mine Workers’ Fish Soup) Caldo de oso is traditionally made with catfish, though any white fish will work in this soup, a specialty of Chihuahua in Mexico.  By  Pati Jinich Whole Steamed Fish The final touch for this dish is a pour of hot oil over the top, providing an additional flash-fry of aromatic flavor as the oil sizzles over the scallions and ginger. By  Frankie Gaw Air-Fryer Salmon With Sweet Tamarind Glaze These air-fryer salmon fillets are glazed with a sweet and tangy tamarind sauce and topped with crispy fried shallots.  By  Nik Sharma Ochazuke (Rice Tea Soup) Ochazuke (Japanese green tea over rice) is a soup is made with fresh or leftover rice in your rice bowl and green tea; add toppings to make it a full meal. By  Sonoko Sakai Winter Chicories With Date and Anchovy Dressing This bold salty-sweet dressing and bitter chicories are flavor heavyweights; they stand up to and complement one another in this simple striking salad. By  Odette Williams Celebration Salmon This dinner party salmon recipe is a joy to look at, a joy to eat, and what’s more, it’s incredibly easy to make, which is a celebration in itself. By  Ixta Belfrage Okay, but Seriously, Tinned Fish Makes a Great Gift Pretty on the outside, delicious on the inside—and you can easily keep a bunch on hand for last-minute giving. By  Kendra Vaculin  and  Wilder Davies Salmon Patties With Dill Sauce These light, gluten-free salmon patties are perfect as an appetizer, weeknight dinner, or even breakfast—you can also use them to make salmon burgers. By  Caroline Randall Williams  and  Alice Randall 53 Italian Seafood Recipes for the Feast of the Seven Fishes Celebrate this Italian American Christmas Eve tradition with a meal that includes at least seven different types of seafood. By  Meredith Stettner  and  The Editors of Epicurious If You Love Tinned Fish, You Need a Sardine Fork This squat, strangely shaped fork is surprisingly useful when composing artful snack platters and work-from-home lunches. By  Anna Hezel Tuna Noodle Casserole This from-scratch tuna noodle casserole is creamy, flavorful, and really easy to throw together; it makes a crowd-pleasing weeknight dinner and even freezes well. By  Kemp Minifie How to Make the Cheesiest, Crispiest Tuna Melt Making a tuna melt isn’t hard, but these tips will help you make one that’s truly cheesy, crispy, and comforting. By  Genevieve Yam Easy, Cheesy Tuna Melt The best tuna melt is properly cheesy and made with a tuna salad that’s good enough to shine on its own. By  Genevieve Yam Zucchini and White Bean Caesar Ribbons of raw zucchini take well to the Caesar treatment in this mostly no-cook summer dinner. By  Rebecca Firkser 31 Cod Recipes for Delicate, Flaky Fish Every Time Our best cod recipes will give your go-to salmon dish a run for its money. By  Meredith Stettner  and  The Editors of Epicurious Summer Corn, Tomato, and Salmon Salad Poach salmon in the same thyme-and-garlic-infused water that the corn is boiled in for this refreshing, time-saving salad dinner. By  Anna Stockwell Swordfish Loves the Grill—Here’s How to Do it Right Grilled swordfish with whole-lemon dressing is the meaty main your dinner party deserves. By  Rebecca Firkser Grilled Swordfish Steaks With Whole-Lemon Dressing Tender grilled swordfish steaks are topped with a bright, garlicky Mediterranean-inspired dressing of chopped whole lemon and oregano. By  Rebecca Firkser Previous 1    of    191 Next Since 1995, Epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes. More from Epicurious The Epicurious App Newsletters Subscription FAQs Prime Day Connect Careers Press Center Advertising Masthead Contact Us Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Condé Nast Spotlight Do Not Sell My Personal Info ©    2023    Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     User Agreement  and  Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement  and  Your California Privacy Rights.   Epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.     Ad Choices Food Innovation Group