skip to main content open navigation menu to revisit this recipe, visit my account, then     view saved recipes .
close alert chicken recipes & menus expert advice ingredients holidays & events my saved recipes more to revisit this recipe, visit my account, then     view saved recipes close alert sign in search recipes & menus expert advice ingredients holidays & events video my saved recipes chicken hariyali murgh (baked chicken thighs with herbs) these bone-in chicken thighs are rubbed with cilantro, mint, and chiles.
by  asma khan braised chicken with olives and citrus just mix everything together for this braised chicken dish and put it in the oven, and about an hour later, you have a fragrant, tangy dinner.
by  einat admony  and  janna gur 21 chinese chicken recipes for cozy braises and flavor-packed stir-fries explore all of this protein’s crispy, velvety, spicy, tender potential.
by  sarah and kaitlin leung bean sprout stir-fry with chicken and garlic chives use either mung bean or soybean sprouts for this stir-fry—mung bean sprouts are more tender and crisp.
by  betty liu sweet and sour chicken velvety chicken, canned pineapple, and ketchup come together in this beloved chinese takeout recipe by way of oahu.
by  j. kenji lópez-alt chicken curry puffs the pleasant balance of salt, spice, and sugar makes these curry puffs perfect for an appetizer, afternoon snack, or breakfast with a cup of tea.
by  bill, judy, sarah, and kaitlin leung easy salt-baked chicken this adaptation of classic cantonese salt-baked chicken doesn't require a ton of salt.
by  bill, judy, sarah, and kaitlin leung hand-shredded chicken poaching the chicken not only prevents overcooking, it also gives the meat a silky texture.
by  bill, judy, sarah, and kaitlin leung pollo rostizado con naranja y chile de árbol (orange-and-chile roast chicken) this orange-and-chile roast chicken brings together all the many lessons i’ve learned from roasting chickens over the years.
by  pati jinich you can find everything you need for these wings in your fridge door sticky, spicy, sweet, salty—these maple-wasabi chicken wings get tons of flavor from a bunch of fridge and pantry staples.
by  jarrett melendez maple-wasabi wings these oven-baked wings get a blast of sweet-salty flavor from a blend of maple syrup and soy sauce and a one-two punch of heat from ginger, wasabi, and ra-yu sesame chili oil (sometimes labeled “la-yu”).
by  jarrett melendez sopa de lima yucateca lima, or sweet limes, are the key to the citrus flavor of sopa de lima yucateca, but bitter orange also works well in this mexican soup.
by  maricel presilla caldo de pollo when you are sick or under the weather, this mexican chicken soup called caldo de pollo can lift up your spirits like few foods can.
by  enrique olvera  and  luis arellano chicken fajitas the marinade for this chicken fajitas recipe packs a big citrusy punch, which means you don’t have to let the chicken marinate for very long.
by  jarrett melendez one-pot chicken and biscuits this easy chicken and biscuits recipe is made with only one bowl and one skillet.
by  sahara henry-bohoskey crispy baked chicken wings these chicken wings are as golden and crispy as can be—without the hassle of deep-frying.
by  donna hay chicken, fennel, and apple guo-tie in these chicken dumplings, sweet apple and savory chicken come together, and pickled fennel is the lightly acidic bridge.
by  frankie gaw creamy chicken and wild rice soup we highly recommend making this creamy chicken and wild rice soup a day or two ahead; it actually gets better after a night in the refrigerator.
by  gavin kaysen chicken pot pie with biscuit crust gourmet’s  best chicken pot pie recipe makes the ultimate comfort food, with a creamy filling topped with puffy, flavorful cheddar biscuits.
by  the gourmet test kitchen chicken and potato skillet this easy, one-​pan chicken and potato dinner is ideal for a weeknight.
by  maren ellingboe king previous 1    of    215 next since 1995, epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes.
more from epicurious the epicurious app newsletters subscription faqs prime day connect careers press center advertising masthead contact us accessibility help condé nast store condé nast spotlight do not sell my personal info ©    2023    condé nast.
all rights reserved.
use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     user agreement  and  privacy policy and cookie statement  and  your california privacy rights.
epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our affiliate partnerships with retailers.
the material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of condé nast.
ad choices food innovation group
