Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then  View saved recipes . Close Alert Chocolate Stout Cake Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events My Saved Recipes More To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then  View saved recipes . Close Alert Sign In Search Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events Video My Saved Recipes Chocolate Stout Cake By  Barrington Brewery Great, Barrington, MA March 10, 2023 save recipe 4.8 (   483   ) Read Reviews Photo by Joseph De Leo, Food Styling by Stevie Stewart Active Time 30 minutes Total Time 3 hours 20 minutes The secret to unbelievably moist, robustly flavored chocolate cake? It’s beer. This chocolate stout cake recipe abides by the principle that when making a  chocolaty dessert , adding a complementary ingredient helps the chocolate shine. For example,  adding espresso powder to brownies  deepens their flavor without necessarily leaving a distinguishable trace of coffee. In this recipe for chocolate stout cake, the beer serves a similar purpose.  Stout, such as Guinness, adds intense moisture to the cake’s layers and offsets the dessert’s sweetness with a touch of bitterness. For the deepest chocolate flavor, use  Dutch-process cocoa powder , which is less acidic than natural cocoa. The result is supremely rich but balanced cake, layered with a silky, fudgy chocolate ganache.  This exemplary Guinness chocolate cake recipe comes from  Barrington Brewery  in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, where it’s been a mainstay for years. It yields three layers of cake—enough to make a towering  layer cake  or a two-layer cake plus a batch of  cupcakes . Ingredients 16–20 servings Cake 2 cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter, plus more for pans 2 cups stout (such as Guinness) 1½ cups Dutch-process cocoa powder 4 cups (500 g) all-purpose flour 4 cups (800 g) sugar 1 Tbsp. baking soda 1½ tsp. Diamond Crystal or 1 tsp. Morton kosher salt 4 large eggs 1⅓ cups sour cream Frosting and Assembly 2 cups heavy cream 16 oz. bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped Cake Step 1 Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 350°. Coat three 8″-diameter cake pans with  unsalted butter  and line with parchment paper rounds; butter parchment. Bring  2 cups stout  and  2 cups unsalted butter  to a simmer in a medium saucepan. Add  1½ cups Dutch-process cocoa powder  and whisk until mixture is smooth. Remove from heat and let cool slightly. Step 2 Meanwhile, whisk together  4 cups (500 g) all-purpose flour ,  4 cups (800 g) sugar ,  1 Tbsp. baking soda , and  1½ tsp. Diamond Crystal or 1 tsp. Morton kosher salt  in a large bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium-low speed, beat  4 large eggs  and  1⅓ cups sour cream  in another large bowl to blend. Add stout mixture and beat until combined. Scrape down sides of bowl and add dry ingredients. Beat on low speed until mostly combined. Using a rubber spatula, fold batter just until combined and no dry spots remain. Step 3 Divide batter evenly among prepared pans; smooth surface. Bake cakes until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 30–35 minutes. Transfer pans to a wire rack and let cakes cool 10 minutes. Run an offset spatula around sides of cakes to loosen, then invert cakes onto a wire rack; remove parchment. Turn cakes right side up and let cool completely. Frosting and Assembly Step 4 Bring  2 cups heavy cream  to a simmer in a medium saucepan. Remove from heat and add  16 oz. bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped . Whisk until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth. Chill frosting, stirring occasionally, until spreadable, about 2 hours. Step 5 Place 1 cake layer on a cake platter or large plate. Scoop ⅔ cup frosting on top and spread evenly with offset spatula. Place a second cake layer on top; spread top with ⅔ cup frosting. Place third cake layer on top; frost top and sides of cake with remaining frosting. Sign In  or  Subscribe  to leave a Rating or Review How would you rate Chocolate Stout Cake? SUBMIT RATING Leave a Review Reviews (483) Back to Top Agreed. This recipe yields a lot of cake. I cut the recipe in half and am baking it in a spring foam pan. We won't get the layers, but we prefer more cake to frosting ratio. Very excited.  So far so good. Takes longer to bake this way. 

It was a lot of fun to prepare!  Anonymous 2/7/2022 I’ve made this cake several times and it is always a hit. This time, I made a smaller cake and used the leftover batter for cupcakes. The tangy chocolate taste is phenomenal and the ganache is the perfect amount of sweetness to complement the cake. CC13 Chester, VA 11/15/2021 Tastes good but this recipe make soooo much cake and is ridiculously fragile, two of my layers completely crumbled and the third stuck to the rack when cooling. The crumbled layers are still salvageable for a trifle I'm making so that's why I'm giving two stars instead of one. But be very wary if you decide to use this recipe. Poppyrot Seattle, WA 5/10/2021 This recipe makes a delicious cake AND it can be cut in half. I gambled on it  because I had half a can of beautiful stout from yesterday.  Secretlythecat Florida  12/12/2020 The cake is delicious. I considered cutting down on the sugar because it sounds like way too much, but decided against it and it came out just right. Not too sweet. I used two 9-inch cake pans and the full recipe fit just fine. I did not adjust the baking time, but probably should have. It could have used another few minutes, because it was so moist in the center. One layer came out of the pan fine and the other fell apart.  Still 4 stars because I think another 2 or 3 minutes would take care of it  Anonymous 11/26/2020 This cake is delicious, and is replacing the double chocolate layer cake recipe as my to-go chocolate. Moist and flavorful. 

As others have noted, it is huge, serves 24 rather than the 12 mentioned in the recipe. I baked it in four 8" pans and baked 2 at a time. The second 2 batter filled cake pans held in the fridge for 40 minutes and did not rise less than the first 2. My batter weighed 2830 grams, so about 700 grams per each of the 4 pans (allowing for batter clinging to bowl and mixer paddle).  Otherwise I baked as directed.

The stout added complexity rather making the cake taste like beer. Children liked it. It is a rather fragile cake and not a good candidate for sculpting or carving shapes. sf_baker San Francisco 1/9/2020 This is different from the KA recipe in that the sour cream is more and it calls for soda and the KA calls for powder. I think the soda will make the cake rise more? Create a less dense cake??? It could be something to bear in mind... especially if putting a fondant over it. I am making the powder version for a groom's cake. It has to be strong as I'm doing 4 9" layers and covering with ganache and fondant. Maybe some raspberry buttercream in between. I'm still working on between the layers... Anonymous Louisiana 10/22/2019 Question: is 4 cups of sugar the right amount for this recipe? It seems like far too much! clotherstuff 9/20/2019 This cake is excellent. I used Rogue Brewery's seasonal Chocolate Hazelnut Brown Nectar. The amount of batter was perfect for two 8-inch cake pans and one bundt pan. I didn't make the icing because we ate the cake warm topped with ice cream.  brownieluv Portland, OR 3/18/2019 6 Forks!!!!    Is it the best chocolate cake I've ever baked? YES. If you love chocolate cake that isn't too sweet but has an incredible chocolate flavor then this is your cake. Every time I find an amazing recipe I call it 'Restaurant Worthy' and this is one of them. I made three 8 inch layers and froze 2 of them. I cut the layer in half and layered it with a chocolate ganache recipe I had. I made this frosting but I thought if I added some of the beer to it I'd get a different flavor. What I got was a soupy frosting so I added confectioners sugar. The frosting complimented both the cake and the ganache filling.
The cake was tall enough to make a worthy dessert without being so tall and overpowering as the pictured cake. The one layer was heavy enough, I can't imagine keeping all 3 layers together let along when they are cut in half, keeping all 6 layers in line. I decorated the top of my cake with a Bailey's meringue frosting.
The reason I chose this cake is because of the butter and sour cream. The other recipe I had to choose from had oil and buttermilk. 
I would make this cake again and again!!! CODYLOVESTOYS Florida 12/9/2018 Excellent cake - moist, decadent but not cloyingly sweet.  Beautiful in its tall simplicity.  Easy to make.  I was in charge of contributing the dessert for a Thanksgiving dinner.  This is what I made and it was a huge hit. ckott Portland, OR 12/9/2018 Moist and yummy! This is now a go-to easy chocolate cake. Used three 9-inch cake pans and, yes, the picture above is not this cake. I've made the King Arthur's version too and the only difference is 2/3 cup less sour cream and vanilla in the ganache. Either way, it's perfect.  meklas Tallahassee 11/22/2017 Absolutely delicious!  AlleVenturini Milwaukee, WI  9/24/2017 It’s toooo Awesome!!! thanks for sharing this palatable article… very beneficiery tips, You are given in this article...
www.cakengifts.in/cake-delivery-in-okhla-phase2-delhi
www.cakengifts.in/cake-delivery-in-chittaranjan-park-delhi
 cakengiftsDelhi 9/12/2017 This turned out very rich, moist and delicious!  I used peanut butter stout and then made a peanut butter buttercream frosting.  Wowsa!! Mamadoodlerama79 Ilwaco, Wa. 8/23/2017 Tags Layer Cake Cake Dessert Beer Alcohol Beverages Cocoa Chocolate Sour Cream Dairy Nut Free Baking Electric Mixer Epicurious See Related Recipes and Cooking Tips icon What to Cook Right Now Make your March better with banana pudding cheesecake bars, cabbage potato pie, and easy crispy-skinned chicken. icon 53 Best Chocolate Cake Recipes to Make Any Week a Better Week A year’s worth of chocolate cakes, ready for baking. icon 43 Thanksgiving-Ready Cakes Who says Thanksgiving is a pies-only affair? icon 75 Incredible Chocolate Recipes for Cookies, Brownies, Cakes, and More Proceed with caution: These rich, indulgent recipes are for pure chocoholics only. icon 17 Recipes Infused With the Quintessential Irish Stout All the Guinness recipes you need from chocolate–stout cake to porter pot pies. icon Get Hopped Up Cooking With Beer A pint for you and a pint for what you're cooking. Read More Brooklyn Blackout Cake With smooth chocolate pudding buttercream sandwiched between layers of moist devil’s food cake, the Brooklyn blackout cake is a dessert fit for chocolate lovers. By  Erin Patinkin Chocolate Sheet Cake With Brown Butter Frosting How do you make chocolate sheet cake better? Just add brown butter frosting, whose nuttiness is enhanced by an ingredient found in most grocery stores. By  Shilpa Uskokovic Confetti Cake With Chocolate Frosting If there’s only one cake you ever learn to make, let it be this: a classic with soft, colorful vanilla cake layers and a rich chocolate-sour cream frosting. By  Shilpa Uskokovic Dark Chocolate-Espresso Ice Pops A grown-up take on classic fudge pops, thanks to a pinch of instant espresso powder. By  Kendra Vaculin Strawberry and Pretzel Ice Cream Pie This pie celebrates strawberries three ways: with a layer of jam, store-bought ice cream, and a tumble of fresh berries. By  Kendra Vaculin No-Bake Peach Cheesecake With Wheat Thins Crust The salty-sweet crust on this no-bake peach cheesecake is not to be missed. By  Rebecca Firkser Ginger-Lime No-Bake Cheesecake Bars Layers of gingersnap crust, tangy cheesecake, and tart lime curd make these freezer treats a warm-weather crowd-pleaser. By  Kendra Vaculin Make-Ahead Egg and Cheese Sandwiches Mornings on the go just got so much better with these Calabrian chile mayo–spiked egg and cheese sandwiches. By  Zaynab Issa Since 1995, Epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes. More from Epicurious The Epicurious App Newsletters Subscription FAQs Prime Day Connect Careers Press Center Advertising Masthead Contact Us Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Condé Nast Spotlight Do Not Sell My Personal Info ©    2023    Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     User Agreement  and  Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement  and  Your California Privacy Rights.   Epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.     Ad Choices Food Innovation Group