Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then  View saved recipes . Close Alert Braised Chicken With Olives and Citrus Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events My Saved Recipes More To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then  View saved recipes . Close Alert Sign In Search Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events Video My Saved Recipes Braised Chicken With Olives and Citrus By  Einat Admony  and  Janna Gur March 6, 2023 save recipe 5.0 (   1   ) Read Reviews Photo by Quentin Bacon In Israel, chicken with olives is often a simple midweek dish, made with tomato paste and the most basic pitted olives, but this version, while still simple to make, is a delicious step up. In place of tomatoes, citrus provides the brightness—fresh and preserved lemons, dried limes, and orange juice. Just mix everything together and put it in the oven, and about an hour later, you have a fragrant, tangy chicken dish that is beautiful as part of the couscous table. If you don’t have preserved lemons or dried Persian limes, skip either one or both. The fresh lemons and olives add plenty of flavor. This recipe was excerpted from 'Shuk' by Einat Admony and Janna Gur. Buy the full book on   Amazon . All products featured on Epicurious are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. What you’ll need Preserved Lemon $12     At Amazon Dried Whole Lime $12     At Amazon Cracked Green Olives $12     At Amazon Ingredients Serves 4 to 6 4 chicken legs or 8 thighs or 8 large drumsticks ½ cup pitted olives (cracked green, Moroccan oil-cured, Manzanilla, or Kalamata olives) 1 medium yellow onion, halved and sliced 4 wedges preserved lemon, store-bought or homemade, pulp and seeds scraped out 2 dried Persian limes, cracked 1 lemon, thinly sliced and seeded 3 Tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil 1½ tsp. honey 1 Tbsp. kosher salt 1 cup coarsely chopped fresh cilantro, plus a handful of whole leaves for serving (optional) 2 large garlic cloves, smashed ½ tsp. ground turmeric 1½ tsp. ground cumin 1 tsp. sweet paprika Pinch of chile flakes 1 cup homemade or low-sodium store-bought chicken stock 1 cup fresh orange juice Cooked couscous, for serving Step 1 Preheat the oven to 400°F. Step 2 Put the chicken, olives, onion, preserved lemon, dried limes, lemon slices, oil, honey, salt, cilantro, garlic, turmeric, cumin, paprika, and chile flakes in a large bowl. Using your hands, mix everything thoroughly, making sure the chicken pieces are well coated with the spices and herbs. Step 3 Arrange the chicken pieces skin-side down in a deep baking dish in a single snug layer. Arrange the rest of the mixture over the chicken. Whisk the stock with the orange juice in a measuring cup and pour over the chicken. Step 4 Cover with aluminum foil and bake for 40 minutes. Remove the foil and, using tongs or a couple of spoons, turn the chicken pieces skin-side up. Bake, uncovered, for another 20 to 25 minutes, until the chicken is cooked through and the skin is nicely browned and crackly. To check for doneness, make a small incision in the thickest part of a chicken thigh and make sure the juices run clear. If they are still pink, baste the skin with the pan juices to prevent the chicken from drying out and roast for another few minutes. Step 5 Sprinkle with the cilantro leaves (if using) and serve over couscous. Excerpted from  Shuk  by Einat Admony and Janna Gur (Artisan Books). Copyright © 2019. Buy the full book from  Amazon  or  Artisan . Sign In  or  Subscribe  to leave a Rating or Review How would you rate Braised Chicken With Olives and Citrus? SUBMIT RATING Leave a Review Reviews (1) Back to Top Add this to your go to list! The brightness of the orange juice and flavor of cumin &amp; turmeric shine over all the other recipe variations out there.  It works great cut in half for just 4 thighs.  You can omit the preserved lemons or dried limes but lemon is a must, cut in slices, then halved.  Subbed flat leaf Italian parsley for cilantro, used black oil cured olives, and skipped the honey.  I rubbed the thighs w olive oil and seared before coating them with the mixture of salt through the Chile flakes and then followed Steps 3-5.  Served with blistered French green beans.  So so good!  This will be a great one for cooking a day in advance.   The Thyme Savor Raleigh, NC 3/9/2023 Tags Cookbooks Israeli Middle Eastern Passover Chicken Poultry Olive Citrus Fruit Braise Chicken Leg Chicken Thigh Chicken Drumstick See Related Recipes and Cooking Tips icon 43 Passover Dinner Ideas for Seder and Beyond If you’re planning for a week of kosher for Passover meals, you’re going to need more than just your grandma’s brisket recipe. Read More Soy-Sauce-and-Tomato-Braised Chicken Soy sauce, hot mustard, and a little butter make a luxurious sauce for set-it-and-forget-it braised chicken thighs with tomatoes. By  Christian Reynoso Peanut-Butter-Braised Chicken and Greens Peanut butter lends its nutty, creamy texture to this hearty one-pot chicken and greens dish with an irresistible sauce you’ll want to serve over plenty of rice. By  Gregory Gourdet Masa-Fried Chicken With Lime Cabbage Slaw These crunchy tenders will give you tortilla chip vibes in the best way (and they just so happen to be gluten-free). By  Christian Reynoso Turmeric-Lime Chicken With Pumpkin Seed Salsa A spiced lime and yogurt marinade tenderizes and flavors this spatchcocked chicken, served with a salsa made from vegetables and pepitas roasted alongside. By  Kendra Vaculin Soy-Braised Brisket This hearty crowd-pleasing roast is a mash-up of two beloved culinary staples: tender Jewish brisket and sweet-savory Korean braised short ribs known as kalbi jjim. By  Hana Asbrink Lime Squiggles Make these irresistible melt-in-your mouth shortbread-style cookies, which are topped with lime glaze and zest for a tangy and citrusy punch. By  Claire Saffitz Olive Oil Brownies These fudgy rye-flour olive oil brownies are sweetened with dates. By  Brian Levy Classic Dry Martini This simple classic gin martini recipe makes a beautiful, sophisticated cocktail that is as easy to stir together as it is to drink. By  The Editors of Epicurious Since 1995, Epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes. More from Epicurious The Epicurious App Newsletters Subscription FAQs Prime Day Connect Careers Press Center Advertising Masthead Contact Us Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Condé Nast Spotlight Do Not Sell My Personal Info ©    2023    Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     User Agreement  and  Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement  and  Your California Privacy Rights.   Epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.     Ad Choices Food Innovation Group