Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then     View saved recipes . Close Alert 31 Bundt Cake Recipes for Beautiful Baking Without Fuss Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events My Saved Recipes More To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then     View saved recipes Close Alert Sign In Search Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events Video My Saved Recipes Photo by Chelsea Kyle, Food Styling by Kat Boytsova Cake 31 Bundt Cake Recipes for Beautiful Baking Without Fuss These pretty cakes are low-effort, high-reward. By  The Editors of Epicurious March 7, 2023 Bundt cake recipes rarely require any decoration; the pan alone is enough to make an  easy cake  into a showstopper. But once you have a  Bundt cake pan  (whether it’s classic or more elaborate), you need to pick a flavor profile. Will you go spiced or lemony? Laced with chocolate or a pour of rum? Apple-walnut? Rhubarb-pistachio? Or something that isn’t quite cake but still looks the part, like a peanut-buttery mix of cereal, pretzels, and other snacks, or a towering pile of brioche balls. Below you’ll find our 31 favorite Bundt cake recipes, including all that and more. Photo by Joseph De Leo, Food Styling by Drew Aichele 1/31 Classic Bundt Cake Before we go down this long list of Bundt cake recipes, let's kick it off with a classic. This vanilla cake from Epi contributor Tara O'Brady can be dressed up with whipped cream and fruit or snagged by the slice for snacking on the go. It uses the  reverse creaming method  to make quick work of the batter-making process. Get This Recipe Photo by Chelsea Kyle, Food Styling by Kat Boytsova 2/31 Hot Cocoa Cake Coffee powder enhances the deep flavor of chocolate in this cake, and melty chunks from a chopped up bar of chocolate take it even further. Serve with whipped cream (or  Angostura whipped cream ) if you know what's good. Get This Recipe Photo by Matthew Septimus 3/31 Apple Walnut Bundt Cake Olive oil  helps this Bundt cake stay moist and flavorful for days, so this is the ideal to recipe to bake when you want to snag little snacky slices all day long. Get This Recipe Photo by Joseph De Leo, Food Styling by Rebecca Jurkevich 4/31 Cold Oven Pound Cake Pastry chef  Cheryl Day  is full of baking wisdom—including the lesson of starting this pound cake  in a cool oven  and letting it cook low and slow. Get This Recipe Photo by Deb Perelman 5/31 Marble Bundt Cake The vanilla portion this swirled cake from Smitten Kitchen's Deb Perelman gets a secret touch of melted white chocolate for added toasty flavor. Who said Bundt cake recipes can't be clever? Get This Recipe Photo by Chelsea Kyle, Food Styling by Kate Buckens 6/31 East 62nd Street Lemon Cake This Bundt cake recipe from dessert doyenne Maida Heatter calls for the zest of two whole lemons, plus a bright, tart glaze that gets brushed on top. Get This Recipe Photo by Joseph De Leo, Food Styling by Kaitlin Wayne 7/31 One-Pot Honeycomb Cake It might look like any other Bundt cake from the outside, but this vivid  pandan-flavored honeycomb cake  will delight you as soon as you begin to slice it. Get This Recipe Charles Schiller 8/31 Rum-Scented Marble Cake Rum and  chocolate  are magnificent together—here, a third of the batter is mixed with bittersweet chocolate so you'll get a pretty spiral inside the cake. Get This Recipe Photo by Linda Xiao 9/31 Ricotta Olive Oil Pound Cake Make this easy one-bowl cake for any brunch or dinner party. It's remarkably moist, with a rich orangey aroma. Get This Recipe Photo by Christopher Testani 10/31 Double Ginger Sticky Toffee Pudding You'll poke holes in this Bundt cake when it comes out of the oven, then pour gooey toffee sauce all over it. Of course, you should still serve it with more toffee sauce on the side. Get This Recipe Photo by Michael Graydon & Nikole Herriott 11/31 Fruity Rum Bundt Cake Use a serrated knife when you cut this fruit-studded cake—that way you won't squash or shred the slices. Get This Recipe Paulette Tavormina 12/31 Cinnamon Bun Bundt Cake Here's a  brunch recipe  that'll really make Sunday feel special. Cinnamon buns, in fancy coffee-cake style. Get This Recipe Photo by Chelsea Kyle 13/31 Rhubarb-Pistachio Bundt Cake With Rose Glaze Rhubarb has a subtle floral character that means it's perfectly matched with rose water in this elegant cake. Save this recipe for a spring brunch, perhaps? Get This Recipe Photo by Shutterstock 14/31 Quatre-Quarts au Chocolat de Juliette (Chocolate Pound Cake) Chopped chocolate, not cocoa, gives this cake its flavor. Try it with a little  Angostura whipped cream  on top. Get This Recipe Chris Court 15/31 Spiced Bundt Cake with Apple Caramel Sauce Apple cider adds brightness and depth to the caramel sauce that drips down the sides of this well-spiced cake. Get This Recipe Photo by Romulo Yanes 16/31 Pumpkin Spice Bundt Cake With Buttermilk Icing This autumnal  dessert from   Gourmet  can be baked and kept at room temperature for a few days, which means it's great to have around the house. The buttermilk icing will harden slightly into the perfect crackly texture. Get This Recipe Photo by Chelsie Craig, Food Styling by Pearl Jones 17/31 Sticky Toffee Date Cake You might end up with extra salted toffee sauce when you make this recipe, but you won't regret that for a minute. Get This Recipe Photo by Oriana Koren, food styling by Lillian Kang, prop styling by Jillian Knox 18/31 Cinnamon-Roll Pound Cake The batter for this cake from Jocelyn Delk Adams gets swirled with a brown sugar–cinnamon spice mixture. You'll need a 12-cup Bundt pan for baking. Get This Recipe Michael Graydon and Nikole Herriott 19/31 Lemon-Buttermilk Bundt Cake This tangy cake gets a simple, fruity glaze on top. You'll just simmer apricot and lemon juice together for a few minutes, then pour it over the top of your inverted Bundt. Get This Recipe Photograph by Eva Kolenko. Food styling by Susie Theodorou. Set design by Kira Corbin. On set producer: Jennifer Thomas. 20/31 Rum Cake With Sticky Maple Glaze and Coconut Ayesha Curry’s holiday-ready rum cake gets its cheery flavor from two kinds of rum: spiced rum in the batter and dark rum in the maple glaze. Sprinkle some coconut over the top before serving. Get This Recipe Kimberly Sentner 21/31 Honey Cake With its velvety chocolate glaze and snowy flakes of sea salt, this dressed-up honey cake is perfect for Rosh Hashanah. But it's good enough to bake all year—some readers even call it the best honey cake ever. Get This Recipe Romulo Yanes 22/31 Cardamom Vanilla Pound Cake You'll whisk the flour with cardamom for this holiday pound cake. It not only keeps well—the flavor actually intensifies over the first day or so. Try toasting a slice before topping with ice cream. Get This Recipe Photo by Laura Letinsky 23/31 Spiced Cranberry Bundt Cake Dorie Greenspan makes this jolly cake with five-spice powder, almond meal, ground ginger, and both fresh (or frozen) and dried  cranberries . The glaze has a bit of orange juice, which pairs well with the tart berries. Get This Recipe Stephen Sullivan; food and prop styling: Roscoe Betsill 24/31 Spiced Apple Cake with Eggnog Sauce You can dress up this one-bowl cake with a drizzle of store-bought eggnog. Get This Recipe COPYRIGHT ©2005 THE CONDÉ NAST PUBLICATIONS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 25/31 Chocolate Stout Cake Not sure what to bake for St. Patrick's Day? We vote for this extra-moist chocolate cake, which uses the bubbles in some stout (such as Guinness) as a leavening agent. Get This Recipe Photo by Lisa Hubbard 26/31 Lavender Honey Tea Bread The lavender blossoms in the batter for this statuesque cake make it perfect for an afternoon tea. As with many Bundt cake recipes, you can can use any decorative tube cake pan—just make sure it can hold ten cups of cake batter. Get This Recipe Photo by Alex Lau 27/31 Monkey Bread If you bake it in a Bundt pan, does monkey bread count as Bundt cake? With its rich, buttery flavor and drizzled caramel sauce, we say yes. Get This Recipe Photo by Clare Winfield 28/31 Meskouta Yogurt makes this Moroccan cake wonderfully moist. The batter is scented with fresh rosemary needles and lemon zest. Get This Recipe donna hay magazine, photography by Chris Court 29/31 Spiced Chai Bundt Cake This easy Bundt cake recipe gets a touch of pumpkin pie spice in addition to loose  chai . Get This Recipe Jody Horton 30/31 Spiced Sweet Potato Bundt Cake This sweet potato cake from chef Tanya Holland is much simpler to make than  sweet potato pie , but just as delightful. Get This Recipe Photo by Chelsea Kyle, Food Styling by Katherine Sacks 31/31 Crispy Peanut Butter Snack Cake Looking for the absolute easiest Bundt cake recipes? This salty-sweet “snack cake” is made with a simple honey and peanut butter base, stirred into crispy rice cereal, Chex, mini pretzels, potato chips, and salted peanuts. It's not quite cake, but it'll do the trick. Get This Recipe Read More 17 Classic Recipes From Baking Legend Cheryl Day Biscuits and cakes for every occasion. By  Jarrett Melendez 19 Lovable Loaf Cakes for Simple Snacking These cakes can be fancy enough for a dinner party or low-key enough for anytime nibbling. By  Julia Price Baron 23 Gnocchi Recipes for Pillowy Comfort Any Time These pillowy dumplings can be as dressed up or dressed down as you want. By  The Editors of Epicurious 53 Easter Side Dishes for a Spring Celebration Outshine the ham (or the lamb, or the salmon) with our favorite recipes for spring vegetables and more. By  Joe Sevier 43 Passover Dinner Ideas for Seder and Beyond If you’re planning for a week of kosher for Passover meals, you’re going to need more than just your grandma’s brisket recipe. By  Zoe Denenberg 23 Miso Recipes for More Subtly Savory Flavor in Every Bite The fermented soybean paste adds salty-sweet umami to soups, stir-frys, and even desserts. By  Zoe Denenberg 21 Chinese Chicken Recipes for Cozy Braises and Flavor-Packed Stir-Fries Explore all of this protein’s crispy, velvety, spicy, tender potential. By  Sarah and Kaitlin Leung Giuliano Hazan's Favorite Pastas of All Time The cookbook author and cooking instructor shares his favorite pasta dinners. By  Giuliano Hazan Since 1995, Epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes. More from Epicurious The Epicurious App Newsletters Subscription FAQs Prime Day Connect Careers Press Center Advertising Masthead Contact Us Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Condé Nast Spotlight Do Not Sell My Personal Info ©    2023    Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     User Agreement  and  Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement  and  Your California Privacy Rights.   Epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.     Ad Choices Food Innovation Group