skip to main content open navigation menu to revisit this recipe, visit my account, then     view saved recipes .
close alert 21 recipes we’re excited to cook whenever spring arrives recipes & menus expert advice ingredients holidays & events my saved recipes more to revisit this recipe, visit my account, then     view saved recipes close alert sign in search recipes & menus expert advice ingredients holidays & events video my saved recipes photo by ed anderson spring 21 recipes we’re excited to cook whenever spring arrives congratulations—you made it through potato season.
by  the editors of epicurious march 11, 2023 epicurious staffers are always pretty happy in the kitchen, but the arrival of spring makes cooking  so  much better.
love you, root vegetables, but we’re ready for  rhubarb .
and  asparagus .
and  peas .
we're  so  ready for crisp spring salads and the first warm-weather grilling session; honestly, we’ve been saving recipes in the  epi ios app  all winter long in anticipation.
here are the spring dinner ideas and baking projects we’re eager to make—and eat—as soon as spring shows up.
photo by alex lau 1/21 one-skillet chicken with buttery orzo something about spring always makes me want to cook lemony chicken—all the better if the chicken seasons a pot of orzo while it cooks, coating each grain with schmaltz.
this one-pot dinner will pair easily with whatever spring vegetables i can find at the market in the coming weeks…or a bag of frozen peas.
— anna hezel, senior editor get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by judy haubert 2/21 flaky, buttery biscuits i'm on the hunt for a great biscuit recipe and can't wait to try out this one from southern baking authority cheryl day.
spread with honey butter and strawberry jam, these flaky biscuits will make an absolutely lovely spring breakfast.
—zoe denenberg, associate editor, cooking & seo get this recipe photo by chelsea kyle, prop styling by beatrice chastka, food styling by anna stockwell 3/21 spring pea fish chowder chilly spring evenings demand rejuvenating and homey bowls of soup, and there's no recipe more fitting than anna stockwell's spring pea fish chowder, which is a fresh and bright take on the new england-style classic.— wilder davies, commerce writer get this recipe photo by chelsea kyle, food styling by anna stockwell 4/21 spring risotto this verdant risotto, hued bright green from both a swirl of pesto and an array of fresh veggies, practically shouts from the rooftops that spring has arrived.
in the awkward off-season between late winter and early spring, this creamy, comforting dish is a welcome segue.
—li goldstein, digital production assistant get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by lillian chou 5/21 tahini chiffon cake with burnt honey cream and poached rhubarb this cake has been on my to-make list since i came across it months ago, and i already know it’ll be the first thing i bake once the season’s first stalks of rhubarb hit my local farmers market.
there are few ingredients i love more than tahini and rhubarb, and this sesame-crowned cake seems like the perfect marriage of the two.
i’m ordering the  correct sized pan  now in anticipation!— alaina chou, commerce producer get this recipe photo by chelsea kyle, prop and food styling by ali nardi 6/21 braised chicken with asparagus, peas, and melted leeks i don't always cook meat, but when i do, it's chicken.
and if i'm not roasting a whole bird, i opt for bone-in, skin-on thighs like these that get served with a springy mix of asparagus,  leeks , and peas.— emily farris, senior commerce writer get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by judy haubert 7/21 clover club throughout winter, i'm a  rye  drinker ( manhattan , come to me); but when spring rolls around i drift toward gin.
this classic drink features a tangy homemade raspberry syrup, which you can make with fresh or frozen berries.— joe sevier, editor, cooking & seo get this recipe photo by ed anderson 8/21 sam's spring fattoush salad i have loved this fattoush for years: it's crunchy, herby, and satiating thanks to lots of crisp toasted lavash and creamy, salty feta.
it's my ideal spring dinner—and then it's one of those rare salads that's good left-over, so you can eat it again for a workday lunch.
— emily johnson, associate director of commerce get this recipe photograph by emma fishman, food styling by micah morton, prop styling by stephanie yeh 9/21 lemony spring vegetable and barley bowl once spring arrives, you'll find me stuffing my face with everything green; asparagus first and foremost.
spring recipes like this one from carla hall are just what i want as soon as those stalks show up.
(i'll follow it up with a batch of rachel gurjar's  marinated spring vegetables .
)— maggie hoffman, digital director get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by micah marie morton 10/21 thai muslim–style grilled chicken i am the kind of new englander that breaks out the grill  the second  it's warm enough to stand outside without a jacket for a couple hours at a time, so you'd better believe i'll be making this grilled chicken as soon as spring arrives.
the spicy pineapple sauce gives me all the tropical vibes—a reminder that it's only going to get warmer out.— jarrett melendez, associate editor get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by kaitlin wayne 11/21 molten double chocolate mug cake i live on my own (while in a long-distance relationship), so i’m always looking for comforting things to cook and eat.
desserts are hard, though, because most recipes are for more than one person, and baking them only ends up making me sad.
so i’m extra excited to make this molten mug cake and eat it in bed while watching a true crime documentary (yes, i’m that girl).
— anikah shaokat, associate editor get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by micah marie morton 12/21 easy pasta salad the first chance i get to have a  picnic  in the park, this pickle-y and herbaceous easy pasta salad recipe will be the first thing to go into the basket.— wilder davies, commerce writer get this recipe photo by andrew thomas lee 13/21 strawberry honey balsamic with black pepper ice cream i recently hit the jackpot at my local salvation army and am now the proud owner of a cotton candy–pink cuisinart ice cream machine.
i can't wait to put it to use with this strawberry ice cream recipe from one of my favorite scoop shops, salt and straw.
—zoe denenberg, associate editor, cooking & seo get this recipe photo by chelsea kyle, food styling by rhoda boone 14/21 lamb chops with pistachio salsa verde two things i associate with spring are lamb and the color green, which makes this recipe very thematically on point to my broken brain.
but more than being seasonally appropriate, this dish is stunning, and the zesty salsa verde, laden with one of my very favorite nuts, is bright, herbaceous, and always a winner.— jarrett melendez, associate editor get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by rebecca jurkevich 15/21 paella with seafood i've been looking for more seafood-focused dinner party mains, and paella is the ideal impressive (but actually easy) option.
in my dreams, i'd get a big paella pan and cook this recipe outside on the grill.
we'll see if the weather cooperates.
— maggie hoffman, digital director get this recipe photo by benito martin and jess johnson 16/21 iceberg with dried oregano dressing and creamy sheep’s milk cheese i'll take pale crisp greens over a more colorful garden mix any day and when the weather turns warm, i want cold, crunchy salads  every  day.
that's why i can't wait to make this seemingly simple—but clearly very flavorful—salad with a heap of little iceberg lettuce wedges, thinly-sliced shallots, and a creamy oregano dressing.
(though i'll probably pass on the dill garnish).— emily farris, senior commerce writer and captain of team iceberg lettuce get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by susan ottaviano 17/21 easy chinese bakery–style whipped cream cake ever since i laid eyes on the ethereally light sponge of this chinese bakery-style cake developed by former epi staffer genevieve yam, i've been patiently waiting for the right time to make it.
it's the ideal dessert for ushering in the season of berries and warmer weather.— joe sevier, editor, cooking & seo get this recipe photo by marina delio 18/21 lemony asparagus with just 5 ingredients—and plated in 5 minutes or less, nothing gets better than this easy asparagus recipe.— joelle bellini, audience development manager get this recipe photograph by joe lingeman, food styling by shilpa uskokovic, prop styling by marina bevilacqua 19/21 carrot sheet cake with cream cheese whip i love a  classic carrot cake , but as i think about new spring recipes to try this year, shilpa uskokovic's no-grating-required version from ba is high on my list.
the brilliant move?
the carrots are blended right into the batter.— maggie hoffman, digital director get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by pearl jones 20/21 spicy cumin chicken heart skewers one thing about me is that i’m an offal girl.
while my brothers always fought over chicken drumsticks, i preferred the gizzards but especially the heart.
i love its chewy, bouncy texture and the ever-so-subtle metallic taste that's tamed by hot spices like cumin and szechuan peppercorns in this recipe.
i always order versions of this dish at pretty much any chinese restaurant that has it on their menu.
but i’m very excited to finally make it at home.
— anikah shaokat, associate editor get this recipe photo by john kernick 21/21 onion tart with mustard and fennel a couple weeks ago, my toddler declared "i love onions.
i want to eat them every day."
he has, in fact, asked to eat onions for breakfast more than once now.
the onions he's into are  caramelized , so i want to try to ease him into something more complex by combining his new favorite food with something that resembles one of his other favorite foods, pizza, using this  gourmet  recipe for a provençal onion tart.
— noah kaufman, product reviews editor get this recipe read more 21 chinese chicken recipes for cozy braises and flavor-packed stir-fries explore all of this protein’s crispy, velvety, spicy, tender potential.
by  sarah and kaitlin leung 21 breakfast ideas without eggs so you don't have to buy a carton cringing at the price of eggs at your local store?
breakfast can happen without them.
by  the editors of epicurious giuliano hazan's favorite pastas of all time the cookbook author and cooking instructor shares his favorite pasta dinners.
by  giuliano hazan 17 classic recipes from baking legend cheryl day biscuits and cakes for every occasion.
by  jarrett melendez 19 lovable loaf cakes for simple snacking these cakes can be fancy enough for a dinner party or low-key enough for anytime nibbling.
by  julia price baron 23 sweet vermouth cocktails to use up that bottle think outside the negroni box.
by  anna hezel 61 easter desserts, each one better than a chocolate egg no easter basket or pandering to bunnies required.
by  joe sevier 47 foolproof tips that guarantee better bakes wondering the secret to a perfectly layered cake or how to make your pie crust both flaky and sturdy?
we’ve rounded up our top tips for making all of your desserts and baked goods better.
by  anikah shaokat  since 1995, epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes.
more from epicurious the epicurious app newsletters subscription faqs prime day connect careers press center advertising masthead contact us accessibility help condé nast store condé nast spotlight do not sell my personal info ©    2023    condé nast.
all rights reserved.
use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     user agreement  and  privacy policy and cookie statement  and  your california privacy rights.
epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our affiliate partnerships with retailers.
the material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of condé nast.
ad choices food innovation group
