Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then  View saved recipes . Close Alert Chapati Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events My Saved Recipes More To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then  View saved recipes . Close Alert Sign In Search Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events Video My Saved Recipes Chapati By  Asma Khan March 13, 2023 save recipe Photo by Laura Edwards This is the everyday bread eaten by many families in India. Chapati flour is readily available in many South Asian grocery stores and also in mainstream supermarkets. If you can’t find it, you can use sifted whole wheat flour. Measure the flour after sifting and discarding the bran left in the sieve. In some parts of India, the chapatis would be cooked and wrapped in a clean cloth and put into a closed basket or tin and taken to the dinner table. As the bread cools it becomes hard, so it is a bread that is meant to be eaten hot and immediately. Some of our food has uncomfortable roots of patriarchy. Historically, there was a culture where the men and boys of the family ate first, while the women and girls ate later—in many families it was the women and girls who were making the hot chapatis that were served to the men. Many years later, talking to friends about gender bias, I heard references to the burnt chapatis that were given to them—the rejects. If you want to cook the chapatis in advance, so you can sit and break bread with your family and friends, you need to cook them on low to medium heat so they remain soft. Wrap them in a  cloth  immediately. If you cook the chapatis until they develop dark brown spots, they will harden if you keep them. To honor the memories of all those generations of women and girls who never broke bread at the table with their families, please do make this bread and share it with your loved ones. This recipe was excerpted from 'Ammu' by Asma Khan. Buy the full book on   Amazon . Click here for more   flatbread recipes → All products featured on Epicurious are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. What you’ll need Chakki Atta (Whole Wheat Flour) $29     At Amazon Tawa $33     At Amazon Rolling Pin $19     At Amazon Ingredients Makes 6 chapatis 2 cups (225 g) sifted chapati flour or whole wheat flour, plus extra for dusting ¼ tsp. salt ⅔ cup (150 ml) cold water Step 1 Put the flour and salt in a bowl and gradually add the water, kneading as you go, to make a soft but pliable dough. This may take 5–7 minutes. Step 2 Transfer the dough to a lightly floured surface and knead using strong downward pressure for about 5 minutes. Cover the dough and set aside for 30 minutes. Step 3 Divide the dough into six equal pieces and shape each piece into a ball. Flatten to a disc and roll out on a lightly floured surface until each piece is 6 inches in diameter. Step 4 Heat a tawa or frying pan over medium–high heat and cook one chapati at a time, pressing down on the edges with scrunched-up paper towels or a clean kitchen cloth. The bread should puﬀ up and be flecked with brown, which is the sign it is ready to eat. Reprinted with permission from  Ammu: Indian Home-Cooking to Nourish Your Soul  by Asma Khan. Copyright © 2022. Published by Interlink Books. Buy the full book from  Simon & Schuster  or  Amazon . Sign In  or  Subscribe  to leave a Rating or Review How would you rate Chapati? SUBMIT RATING Leave a Review Tags Indian South Asian Asian Cookbooks Bread Flatbread Read More Mango Sticky Rice By  The Gourmet Test Kitchen Simple Roast Chicken Chef Thomas Keller’s food is known for fine dining finesse, but his recipe for simple roast chicken is about as easy as it gets. By  Thomas Keller Panna Cotta Cool, creamy vanilla panna cotta is the simplest kind of dessert; it only needs a few minutes on the stove, and it sets all on its own in the refrigerator. By  The Gourmet Test Kitchen 15-Minute Burst Cherry Tomato Pasta Juicy and sweet cherry tomatoes burst open in warm olive oil, creating a luxuriously silky sauce that comes together in minutes. By  Anna Stockwell Maple Pecan Scones Pecans take on a lovely maple taste with caramel tones when toasted, so they're amazing in this nutty maple scone recipe. By  Gemma Stafford Irish Soda Bread With Raisins This easy Irish soda bread recipe gets a little tang from buttermilk and pops of concentrated sweetness from dried fruit. By  Anitra Earle Paella With Seafood This classic Spanish recipe from cookbook author Claudia Roden makes a celebratory seafood and rice dish flavored with sweet paprika and golden saffron. By  Claudia Roden Conchas Enriched bread dough gets shaped into a roll and baked with a crunchy, cookie topping scored to resemble a seashell, or concha. By   Teresa Finney Since 1995, Epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes. More from Epicurious The Epicurious App Newsletters Subscription FAQs Prime Day Connect Careers Press Center Advertising Masthead Contact Us Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Condé Nast Spotlight Do Not Sell My Personal Info ©    2023    Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     User Agreement  and  Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement  and  Your California Privacy Rights.   Epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.     Ad Choices Food Innovation Group