Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then     View saved recipes . Close Alert pasta Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events My Saved Recipes More To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then     View saved recipes Close Alert Sign In Search Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events Video My Saved Recipes Pasta 23 Gnocchi Recipes for Pillowy Comfort Any Time These pillowy dumplings can be as dressed up or dressed down as you want. By  The Editors of Epicurious Giuliano Hazan's Favorite Pastas of All Time The cookbook author and cooking instructor shares his favorite pasta dinners. By  Giuliano Hazan Fusilli With Peppers and Pancetta This simple recipe for Fusilli With Peppers and Pancetta will quickly become a weeknight favorite. By  Giuliano Hazan Spaghetti With Melon Once it is cooked, the melon is mostly unrecognizable, and it’s fun seeing if people can guess what this pasta sauce’s secret ingredient is. By  Giuliano Hazan Linguine With a Pink Shrimp Sauce This is a very elegant sauce that is traditionally served with seafood-filled ravioli, but linguine with pink shrimp sauce is just as delicious. By  Giuliano Hazan Spaghetti alla Carbonara With Zucchini Diced zucchini provide a surprisingly delicious variation of this classic Roman pasta sauce. By  Giuliano Hazan Fusilli With Sausage and Leeks The sweetness of leeks and the savoriness of pork sausage make a wonderful combination in this pasta dish. By  Giuliano Hazan Penne With Spinach and Ricotta This quick and easy pasta recipe from Giuliano Hazan was inspired by tortelloni filling. By  Giuliano Hazan Linguine With Crab and Arugula Dungeness crab is ideal, if you can get it, otherwise use any good, sweet-tasting, meaty crab in this crab linguine recipe from Giuliano Hazan. By  Giuliano Hazan Fusilli Lunghi alla Rustica This zesty pasta sauce has everything—tomatoes, peppers, green olives, capers, and a little pancetta. Serve with fusilli lunghi, the long spirals of pasta. By  Giuliano Hazan Al Cantunzein's Pappardelle With Sausage and Peppers This pappardelle with sausage, peppers, and tomatoes recipe was one of my favorites as a teen. By  Giuliano Hazan Dark Greens and Noodles With Yogurt You can use any greens that will wilt in this recipe—chard, kale, and spinach are all delicious with pasta and yogurt. By  Olia Hercules Seared Lemon, Garlic Butter, and Herbed Orzo The combo of seared or grilled lemons and garlic-infused butter tossed with orzo is so satisfying that it just might take you back to childhood. By  Odette Williams Easy Vegan Mac and Cheese The creamy vegan “cheese” sauce in this recipe gets an umami kick from white miso and nutritional yeast. By  Rachel Ama 53 Italian Seafood Recipes for the Feast of the Seven Fishes Celebrate this Italian American Christmas Eve tradition with a meal that includes at least seven different types of seafood. By  Meredith Stettner  and  The Editors of Epicurious Your New Favorite Lasagna Has a Saucy Secret A certified lasagna expert shares her tips for the best lasagna—and an easy recipe. By  Zahra Tangorra Everyone Gets a Crispy Piece With Sheet-Pan Mac and Cheese Skip the roux and the casserole dish for an extra-crispy take on this classic baked pasta. By  Rebecca Firkser Vegetarian Lasagna With Easy Roasted Tomato Sauce This is a vegetable lasagna that cooks can enjoy, too, not only because it’s delicious, but because it’s simple and stress-free to prepare. By  Zahra Tangorra 71 Pasta Recipes to Cook If Spaghetti Is Your Love Language Or bucatini. Or linguine. Or orzo. Or… you get the picture. By  Julia Price Baron  and  The Editors of Epicurious Ooey-Gooey Macaroni and Cheese This mac and cheese has an awesome, crusty, golden-brown top and the ooey-gooiest center known to humankind. By  Chris Scott Previous 1    of    170 Next Since 1995, Epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes. More from Epicurious The Epicurious App Newsletters Subscription FAQs Prime Day Connect Careers Press Center Advertising Masthead Contact Us Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Condé Nast Spotlight Do Not Sell My Personal Info ©    2023    Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     User Agreement  and  Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement  and  Your California Privacy Rights.   Epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.     Ad Choices Food Innovation Group