Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then  View saved recipes . Close Alert Hariyali Murgh (Baked Chicken Thighs With Herbs) Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events My Saved Recipes More To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then  View saved recipes . Close Alert Sign In Search Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events Video My Saved Recipes Hariyali Murgh (Baked Chicken Thighs With Herbs) By  Asma Khan March 13, 2023 save recipe Photo by Laura Edwards Hariyali means greenery in Hindi but it also has a more nuanced cultural meaning: it is often used as a term of blessing. Elders will touch the head of a child, saying “Tere taqdeer mein hariyali bhar ke aaye, tum phoolon phalo”—may you thrive and flourish. It is a blessing of abundance. This was one of the first dishes I learned to cook when I came to England, since the butcher in Cambridge sold skinless  chicken thighs . In India, we rarely eat chicken with the skin on; the masalas can penetrate the meat more easily without it. So, I was surprised to see chicken sold with the skin on it. I struggled when taking the skin oﬀ until someone told me to use paper towels to grab the skin to pull it oﬀ before cooking. Here, the skinless (but bone-in) chicken is rubbed with a simple herby yogurt marinade, then baked in a roasting pan. This recipe was excerpted from 'Ammu' by Asma Khan. Buy the full book on   Amazon . This book was selected as one of the Epicurious   top cookbooks of 2022 . All products featured on Epicurious are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. What you’ll need Mini Food Processor $60     $55     At Amazon Roasting Pan $30     At Amazon Ingredients Serves 6 For the marinade 1⁄2 bunch fresh cilantro leaves and stalks, chopped 1⁄2 bunch fresh mint leaves, chopped 5 green chiles (not the bird’s eye variety, which are too fiery) 1¼ cups (300 ml) full-fat Greek-style yogurt 12 bone-in chicken thighs, skin removed 3 tsp. salt 3 1⁄2 Tbsp. butter 1 lime, sliced, to serve Step 1 To make the marinade, use a mini food processor or hand blender to blend the chopped herbs and chiles with the yogurt. Step 2 Put the chicken in a bowl, add the marinade to cover it completely, then cover the bowl and leave in the fridge for at least 2 hours, preferably 6 hours, or overnight. Remove from the fridge at least 30 minutes before cooking. Step 3 Preheat the oven to 350°F. Line a roasting pan with a large piece of foil that overhangs the edges. Step 4 Season the marinated chicken with the salt and place in the lined roasting pan. Dot with the butter. Fold the foil over the chicken and bake for 1½ hours.  Step 5 Open up the foil and cook for a further 15 minutes to reduce the liquid. Serve with slices of lime. Reprinted with permission from  Ammu: Indian Home-Cooking to Nourish Your Soul  by Asma Khan. Copyright © 2022. Published by Interlink Books. Buy the full book from  Simon & Schuster  or  Amazon . Sign In  or  Subscribe  to leave a Rating or Review How would you rate Hariyali Murgh (Baked Chicken Thighs With Herbs)? SUBMIT RATING Leave a Review Tags Indian South Asian Asian Cookbooks Chicken Thigh Chicken Poultry Cilantro Herbs & Spices Mint Chile Vegetable Oven Bake Marinade Read More Black Pepper Roasted Chicken The is a copycat of the popular five-star grilled chicken found throughout Bangkok. By  Leela Punyaratabandhu Garam Masala No Indian pantry is complete without a batch of homemade garam masala. This fragrant version combines mainstays like cinnamon, cardamom, and nutmeg with rosebuds, cumin, bay leaves, and more. By  Suvir Saran Ginger-Garlic Half Chicken Combine ginger, garlic, fermented chili-bean paste, and soy sauce to make a flavorful marinade for grilled half chickens. By  Tadashi Ono  Cucumber and Cilantro Chutney Sandwich Classic cucumber sandwiches get a punchy makeover with a lemony, herbaceous green chutney. By  Zaynab Issa Rich Turkey Gravy This easy turkey gravy recipe uses the drippings from the bird (deglazed right in the roasting pan) to give you maximum flavor with just three ingredients. By  Alexis Touchet Quick Pesto This Italian pesto recipe comes together quickly thanks to a food processor. Freeze extra for homemade pesto well beyond basil season. By  Amy Mastrangelo Tonkotsu Ramen This tonkotsu ramen recipe is time-consuming but worth the effort—both the stock and the marinade can be made a day in advance. By  Atsuko Ikeda Zhug-Marinated Chicken Thighs Store-bought zhug and your broiler are the shortcuts to juicy, charred chicken without a grill. By  Hana Asbrink Since 1995, Epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes. More from Epicurious The Epicurious App Newsletters Subscription FAQs Prime Day Connect Careers Press Center Advertising Masthead Contact Us Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Condé Nast Spotlight Do Not Sell My Personal Info ©    2023    Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     User Agreement  and  Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement  and  Your California Privacy Rights.   Epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.     Ad Choices Food Innovation Group