skip to main content open navigation menu to revisit this recipe, visit my account, then     view saved recipes .
close alert beef recipes & menus expert advice ingredients holidays & events my saved recipes more to revisit this recipe, visit my account, then     view saved recipes close alert sign in search recipes & menus expert advice ingredients holidays & events video my saved recipes beef every question you have about cattle, climate, and why epicurious is done with beef epicurious won’t be publishing new beef recipes going forward.
but what does that really mean?
by  the editors of epicurious the planet on the plate: why epicurious left beef behind in an effort to encourage more sustainable cooking, we won’t be publishing new beef recipes on epicurious.
by  david tamarkin  and  maggie hoffman the best ways to cook with the new faux meat when you're cooking with plant-based meat, not all recipes are equal.
by  amiel stanek 67 romantic dinner ideas for two the most romantic kind of dinner is one you cook at home.
even better if it's something you can share off the same big plate (or straight out of the pan) together.
by  anna stockwell lumpia this roll can be filled with whatever you like: beef, pork, or vegetables.
the combination in this recipe is my favorite.
by  leah cohen is there such a thing as sustainable beef?
with factory-farmed cattle responsible for huge greenhouse gas emissions, we wondered if grass-fed beef is a more climate-friendly option.
the answer?
it's complicated.
by  alicia kennedy veselka's famous borscht in this recipe, beets are cooked in two separate batches: one batch is used to make “beet water,” a kind of rich beet stock, and the other batch is cooked and grated.
this two-step process gives the borscht its distinct taste and depth of flavor.
by  tom birchard  and  natalie danford spiced lamb and dill yogurt pasta this super-flavorful dish spins the flavors of shish barak—lamb and pine nut dumplings from the levant—in a pasta direction.
by  sohla el-waylly doenjang jjigae this fermented-soybean stew is the quintessential representation of korean jang.
the soft tofu, the dashi, and the sweetness of the vegetables work together to mellow the intensity of the doenjang so that your palate can discern the different facets of flavor.
by  hooni kim tamale pie with fresh tomato and corn juicy ripe tomatoes and sweet summer corn perk up this fresh take on the old-school southwestern casserole.
bonus: it just happens to be gluten-free.
by  anna stockwell four recipes that are perfect for that plant-based meat you've been meaning to try if you still haven't tried  meatless meat  yet, you're not alone.
but you  almost  are.
vegetarian “meats” become available in  more restaurants  and  more grocery stores  seemingly every day, and they're bound to end up in your kitchen eventually.
but what will you do with them once they get there?
that's the question we're answering with these four recipes, each one perfect for a 1:1 swap of meatless meat for ground beef or sausage.
by  the editors of epicurious 81 ways to grill meat this summer get out the charcoal; you have some cooking to do.
by  the epicurious editors our 51 best burger recipes smashed burgers, grilled burgers, veggie burgers—however you like them, we've got a burger recipe for you.
by  the epicurious editors the best meat delivery services to get quality meat delivered to your door we tested seven online butchers to find the best way to get your protein fix—from your couch.
by  emily johnson  and  lauren joseph nigerian skewers seasoned with a spice mix of ground peanuts, cayenne, and ginger, these skewers are most often served with shaved onions and sliced tomato, here a tomato-cream dipping sauce quells the fiery heat.
by  kwame onwuachi okonomiyaki with bonito flakes these savory japanese pancakes are stuffed with shredded cabbage, red pepper, and your choice of meat or seafood.
top with crumbled seaweed, bonito flakes, and mayo for the full experience.
by  sonoko sakai taste test: beef stock we tasted 11 beef broths, stocks, and bone-broths to find the best for soup and stew season.
did your favorite make the cut?
by  joe sevier ragù bolognese like many long-simmered sauces, this one, perhaps the most delicious of all the italian meat sauces, is more flavorful and balanced the following day.
by  melissa hamilton   and   christopher hirsheimer comforting little casseroles tender, sweet and well-spiced stewed meat topped with cheese-encrusted creamy mashed potatoes…need i say more?
by  janneke vreugdenhil bourbon fruit tea punch this spiked fruit tea is intentionally not too boozy, but you can also just leave the bourbon out.
by  tailor, nashville, tn previous 1    of    176 next since 1995, epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes.
more from epicurious the epicurious app newsletters subscription faqs prime day connect careers press center advertising masthead contact us accessibility help condé nast store condé nast spotlight do not sell my personal info ©    2023    condé nast.
all rights reserved.
use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     user agreement  and  privacy policy and cookie statement  and  your california privacy rights.
epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our affiliate partnerships with retailers.
the material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of condé nast.
ad choices food innovation group
