Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then  View saved recipes . Close Alert Stamped Calamansi-Fish Sauce Shortbread Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events My Saved Recipes More To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then  View saved recipes . Close Alert Sign In Search Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events Video My Saved Recipes Stamped Calamansi-Fish Sauce Shortbread By  Abi Balingit March 13, 2023 save recipe Photo by Joseph De Leo, Food Styling by Stevie Stewart When used in the right amounts, fermented and salty elements don’t overpower the other ingredients in a dessert. Whether it’s soy sauce in chocolate chip cookies or bagoong in caramels, these elements help to balance the sweetness of desserts. I remember my auntie Rina used to dip apple slices in patis, or fish sauce, so I’ve never been a stranger to pairing the condiment with fruit. With these shortbread cookies, the hint of patis in the glaze really amplifies the lemon-lime notes of the calamansi. This recipe was excerpted from 'Mayumu' by Abi Balingit. Buy the full book on   Amazon . All products featured on Epicurious are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. What you’ll need Rufina Patis $22     $18     At Amazon Cookie Stamps $44     $25     At Amazon Fish Cookie Cutter $8     At Amazon Stand Mixer $389     At Amazon Ingredients Makes 40 cookies ½ pound (2 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature 1½ cups powdered sugar 1 large egg plus 1 large egg yolk, at room temperature 1 tsp. vanilla extract 2½ cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting ½ tsp. kosher salt 1½ Tbsp. frozen calamansi juice, thawed Zest of 1 lime ½ tsp. patis or fish sauce Step 1 Place the butter and ¾ cup of the powdered sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Cream on medium-high speed until light and fluffy, 3 to 4 minutes. Step 2 Mix in the egg and egg yolk one at a time. After each addition, make sure to beat until the mixture is well combined and the egg is fully incorporated. Add in the vanilla. Scrape down the bottom and sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula. Step 3 Adjust the speed of the mixer to low. Gradually stir in the flour and salt until just incorporated. Turn off the mixer and give the dough a couple of folds. Split the dough in half and wrap each dough ball in plastic wrap. Let the dough chill for at least 1 hour in the fridge. Step 4 Line two baking sheets with silicone mats. Lightly flour a rolling pin and your work surface. Take one of the dough balls and plop it on your work surface. Roll dough out until it’s ¼ inch thick. Make sure to pick up the dough and occasionally sprinkle some flour between rolls, so it doesn’t stick. Step 5 Using a scallop design cookie stamp or a meat tenderizer, press all over the dough until it’s ⅛ inch thick and there are visible impressions on it. Take a 3-inch fish-shaped cookie cutter and cut out shapes. Place them on one of the prepared baking sheets, spacing them at least 1 inch apart. Gather and reroll the scraps until you have a total of 20 fish cookies. Repeat this process with the other ball of dough and place them on a second baking sheet lined with a silicone mat. Transfer the baking sheets to the freezer to chill for at least 30 minutes. Step 6 While the shaped cookie dough is chilling, position a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat the oven to 350°F. Step 7 Take one baking sheet out of the freezer and place it in the oven. Bake the cookies for 12 to 14 minutes, or until golden brown. Transfer the cookies to a wire rack to cool completely. Repeat the baking process with the second baking sheet. Step 8 Using a large sieve, sift the remaining ¾ cup powdered sugar into a medium bowl. Whisk the calamansi juice, lime zest, and patis with the sugar until it becomes a smooth glaze. Using a pastry brush, coat the surface of each cooled cookie with the glaze. Let the glaze harden for at least 30 minutes before serving the cookies. Store any leftovers in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 5 days. From  Mayumu  by Abi Balingit. Copyright © 2023 by Abigail Balingit. Reprinted by permission of Harvest, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers. Buy the full book from  Amazon  or  HarperCollins . Sign In  or  Subscribe  to leave a Rating or Review How would you rate Stamped Calamansi-Fish Sauce Shortbread? SUBMIT RATING Leave a Review Tags Cookie Dessert Cookbooks Filipino Southeast Asian Asian Citrus Fruit Baking See Related Recipes and Cooking Tips Go Ahead. Put Some Fish Sauce in Your Cookies The savory condiment adds a touch of salty depth to this citrusy shortbread. Read More Chocolate Chip Cookie Ice Cream Sandwiches A clever combo of olive oil and agave syrup keep these cookies miraculously chewy and tender even straight out of the freezer. By  Shilpa Uskokovic Chocolate Chip Cookies This classic chocolate chip cookie recipe produces tender cookies with crisp, golden edges and tons of buttery, chocolaty flavor. By  Carla Rollins Fish With Rum Butter Sauce An unctuous butter sauce, spiked with rum and spices, plays well with crispy fish for an easy meal that’ll make any ol’ weeknight feel like a special occasion. By  Tavel Bristol-Joseph Easy Fish Tacos With Spicy Sauce Keep this 20-minute taco recipe featuring pan-seared fish fillets, a lime-infused slaw, and a creamy, spicy sauce in your back pocket for busy weeknights. By  Rachel Gurjar Vanilla No-Bake Cheesecake With a Chocolate Cookie Crust This easy vanilla no-bake cheesecake is creamy, tangy, and requires just 15 minutes of active time. The best part? It’s practically a one-bowl project. By  Jessie Sheehan Grilled Swordfish Steaks With Whole-Lemon Dressing Tender grilled swordfish steaks are topped with a bright, garlicky Mediterranean-inspired dressing of chopped whole lemon and oregano. By  Rebecca Firkser Mint Julep A classic whiskey cocktail made with bourbon and mint is even more fragrant when you flavor your simple syrup. By  Cindy Kebbell Fraisier (Strawberry Cream Cake) Strawberries and cream, but make it fancy (and in a cake). By  Eric Kayser Since 1995, Epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes. More from Epicurious The Epicurious App Newsletters Subscription FAQs Prime Day Connect Careers Press Center Advertising Masthead Contact Us Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Condé Nast Spotlight Do Not Sell My Personal Info ©    2023    Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     User Agreement  and  Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement  and  Your California Privacy Rights.   Epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.     Ad Choices Food Innovation Group