Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then  View saved recipes . Close Alert Bhuna Khichuri (Bengali Roasted Moong Dal and Rice) Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events My Saved Recipes More To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then  View saved recipes . Close Alert Sign In Search Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events Video My Saved Recipes Bhuna Khichuri (Bengali Roasted Moong Dal and Rice) By  Asma Khan March 13, 2023 save recipe Photo by Laura Edwards Bhuna khichuri is probably my favorite rice and lentil dish. It is a deeply comforting and nourishing recipe. I often make it when I want something healing. If I have  homemade ghee  on hand I add a dollop on top of the rice. I always feel better after I eat this khichuri! There were various versions of this dish made in my family, but there was only one version I really disliked, the one that was made when someone was sick. It was almost like a medicine, since it was made with masoor dal, which breaks down more easily and is easy to digest. The “medicinal” version was watery and bland—rice and lentils were simply boiled together until they became total mush, with the consistency of thick soup. Unfortunately, even if you were not sick you had to eat the same food as your siblings, since no one was going to cook anything special for you. I thought that was so unfair—not only did you have to go to school, since you were not sick, but when you came home you had to eat the bland rice and lentil dish. Bhuna khichuri is completely different. Cooked with a lot more care, it has a wonderful smoky, earthy fragrance as the  lentils  are dry-roasted before cooking. The roasted dal does not break down and keeps its shape. It is garnished with the fried onions. We would eat this year-round, but my memory is of us eating this rice dish during the late monsoons, which was always malaria season and invariably a time when many people became unwell. This was usually served in my house with a couple of accompanying bhortas. This recipe was excerpted from 'Ammu' by Asma Khan. Buy the full book on   Amazon . This book was selected as one of the Epicurious   top cookbooks of 2022 . All products featured on Epicurious are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. What you’ll need Moong Dal $10     At Amazon Turmeric $9     At Spicewalla Green Cardamom Pods $13     At Spicewalla Bay Leaves $6     At Spicewalla Cinnamon Sticks $9     At Amazon Ingredients Serves 6 to 8 1 cup (200 g) moong dal 2 cups (400 g) basmati rice Scant 1 cup (200 ml) vegetable oil or ghee 10½ oz (300 g) white onion, thinly sliced into half moons 3 green cardamom pods 2 one-inch pieces of cassia bark 2 Indian bay leaves (tej patta) 1 1⁄2 tsp. ground turmeric 4 1⁄4 cups warm water 2 1⁄2 tsp. salt 2-in piece of fresh ginger, grated 6 whole green chiles Step 1 In a dry karai or wok, dry roast the moong dal over medium heat. My mother insists the dal should always be roasted in a cast-iron pan or karai—any pan with a thick base will ensure that the dal does not burn. You need the heat of the pan to be evenly distributed and diﬀused. The dal should slowly darken and start to emit a beautiful earthy, smoky fragrance. Keep stirring the dal to ensure that all the grains are roasted evenly. Turn the roasted dal onto a large plate and leave to cool. Step 2 Very gently wash the rice and cooled dal in a bowl of cold water. Change the water several times until it is no longer cloudy. Leave the dal and rice to soak in cold water while you prepare the onions. Step 3 Heat the oil or ghee in a large pot over medium heat and fry the onions until they are caramelized. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the onions to a plate, leaving as much of the oil in the pot as possible. Separate the onions with a fork and spread across the plate so they crisp as they cool (do not use paper towels). Step 4 Drain the dal and rice from the water and spread them on paper towels. Gently pat them dry with more paper towels. Step 5 Put the pot with the oil or ghee back over medium heat. Add the cardamoms, cassia bark, and bay leaves and then the drained dal and rice. Add the turmeric and gently stir to coat the dal and rice with the oil and spices. Add the warm water and salt and bring to a boil, then cover with a lid and simmer for at least 20–30 minutes, stirring regularly, until all the water has been absorbed.  Step 6 Add the grated ginger and green chiles and gently mix them through the rice and lentils. Put the lid back on and turn oﬀ the heat. Leave the pot on the stovetop, covered with a clean kitchen cloth, for about 30 minutes before serving. Garnish with the caramelized onions. Reprinted with permission from  Ammu: Indian Home-Cooking to Nourish Your Soul  by Asma Khan. Copyright © 2022. Published by Interlink Books. Buy the full book from  Simon & Schuster  or  Amazon . Sign In  or  Subscribe  to leave a Rating or Review How would you rate Bhuna Khichuri (Bengali Roasted Moong Dal and Rice)? SUBMIT RATING Leave a Review Tags Dal Cookbooks Indian South Asian Asian Rice Rice & Grains Simmer Vegetarian Read More Mango Sticky Rice By  The Gourmet Test Kitchen Simple Roast Chicken Chef Thomas Keller’s food is known for fine dining finesse, but his recipe for simple roast chicken is about as easy as it gets. By  Thomas Keller Panna Cotta Cool, creamy vanilla panna cotta is the simplest kind of dessert; it only needs a few minutes on the stove, and it sets all on its own in the refrigerator. By  The Gourmet Test Kitchen 15-Minute Burst Cherry Tomato Pasta Juicy and sweet cherry tomatoes burst open in warm olive oil, creating a luxuriously silky sauce that comes together in minutes. By  Anna Stockwell Maple Pecan Scones Pecans take on a lovely maple taste with caramel tones when toasted, so they're amazing in this nutty maple scone recipe. By  Gemma Stafford Irish Soda Bread With Raisins This easy Irish soda bread recipe gets a little tang from buttermilk and pops of concentrated sweetness from dried fruit. By  Anitra Earle Paella With Seafood This classic Spanish recipe from cookbook author Claudia Roden makes a celebratory seafood and rice dish flavored with sweet paprika and golden saffron. By  Claudia Roden Conchas Enriched bread dough gets shaped into a roll and baked with a crunchy, cookie topping scored to resemble a seashell, or concha. By   Teresa Finney Since 1995, Epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes. More from Epicurious The Epicurious App Newsletters Subscription FAQs Prime Day Connect Careers Press Center Advertising Masthead Contact Us Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Condé Nast Spotlight Do Not Sell My Personal Info ©    2023    Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     User Agreement  and  Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement  and  Your California Privacy Rights.   Epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.     Ad Choices Food Innovation Group