skip to main content open navigation menu to revisit this recipe, visit my account, then     view saved recipes .
close alert 31 birthday cake recipes to make all your wishes come true recipes & menus expert advice ingredients holidays & events my saved recipes more to revisit this recipe, visit my account, then     view saved recipes close alert sign in search recipes & menus expert advice ingredients holidays & events video my saved recipes photo by chelsea kyle, food styling by olivia mack anderson recipe roundup 31 birthday cake recipes to make all your wishes come true celebrate in style with our favorite birthday cakes, designed for every type of party.
by  the editors of epicurious  and  emily saladino january 26, 2023 there’s no better gift than a homemade birthday cake.
from towering  layer cakes  to  one-bowl wonders , our favorite birthday cake recipes have a few things in common: they’re fun, festive, and require  at least one candle .
our best birthday cakes include floral, fruity numbers (like  a tiered take on strawberry shortcake ) and rich, fudgy crowd-pleasers (our  inside-out german chocolate cake  is a chocolate lover’s dream).
with so many options, you can truly  match the cake to the occasion : want an elegant french gâteau for your friend saving up for a trip to paris?
a  drip cake  to impress your kids?
a low-maintenance icebox cake for a poolside soiree?
cupcakes  for a crowd?
we’ve got the answer for every type of birthday party.
whether you plan to decorate your creation with  buttercream ruffles  and showcase it on a  fancy cake stand ,  hollow it out and fill it with candy , or  shower it with sprinkles  and serve it straight from the pan, it’s your party, and there’s no wrong way to celebrate.
photo by joseph de leo, food styling by kaitlin wayne 1/31 super-moist yellow cake with rich chocolate frosting for classic birthday cake flavor that doesn’t require heading to the grocery store for  boxed cake mix , consider this from-scratch yellow cake recipe.
the sponge gains its fluffy, delicate crumb from  reverse creaming , a technique that starts with dropping the butter into the dry ingredients rather than whipping it with sugar.
get this recipe photo by isa zapata, prop styling by stephanie de luca, food styling by yekaterina boystova 2/31 inside-out german chocolate cake a glossy chocolate glaze coats the exterior of this just-sweet-enough  german chocolate cake .
but don’t worry; it’s still got the classic coconut-pecan frosting sandwiched between the layers.
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by micah marie morton 3/31 dr. bird cake chopped pineapple, ripe bananas, and flaked coconut come together in this  classic jamaican cake , which you might know as  hummingbird cake .
it’s the perfect way to celebrate a summer birthday or brighten a winter occasion.
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by kaitlin wayne 4/31 pandan chiffon cake cookbook author kat lieu transformed her grandmother’s signature lemon cake recipe into this pandan-and-coconut-flavored beauty.
order pandan flavoring online  or find it at east asian food markets.
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, prop styling by anne eastman, food styling by john bjostad 5/31 double chocolate layer cake when this chocolate birthday cake first made the rounds in the  gourmet  offices, it’s said that the staff swooned.
you (and your guests) will too.
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by lillian chou 6/31 tahini chiffon cake with burnt honey cream and poached rhubarb this fluffy, light-as-a-cloud cake gets its rich flavor from nutty tahini.
no rhubarb on hand?
sugared strawberries make an excellent substitute.
get this recipe photo by joe woodhouse 7/31 giant vanilla donut cake the perfect birthday cake for  doughnut lovers , this nostalgic, ring-shaped dessert tucks a buttery white cake beneath brightly colored icing.
use homemade or store-bought fondant to make the giant sprinkles for the top—or  grab a box of pill-shaped candies  like good & plenty or  fruit-flavored tic tacs  instead.
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by kaitlin wayne 8/31 gooey butter cake the signature dessert of st. louis  is exactly what its name suggests—a wonderfully gooey cake that doesn’t quite set when baked.
serve it warm with a generous dusting of powdered sugar.
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by rebecca jurkevich 9/31 easy vegan chocolate cake it’s official: the best vegan chocolate cake is also the  easiest  chocolate cake, full stop, no stand mixer required.
it’s also really delicious.
frost it any way you like.
pictured is our  vegan fluffy buttercream frosting , but you could go with a fudgy dark chocolate  ganache frosting , nutty  vegan peanut butter frosting , or whatever store-bought frosting you prefer.
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by drew aichele 10/31 sticky banana and chocolate skillet cake this easy cake from  cookbook author ixta belfrage  may look quite impressive, but it’s surprisingly simple to execute.
the one-bowl chocolate cake recipe could stand on its own, but the crown of caramelized bananas and swirls of vanilla bean whipped cream make it a complete showstopper.
get this recipe photo by chelsea kyle, food styling by katherine sacks 11/31 vanilla-buttermilk layer cake with orange frosting and raspberries this version of our delicious vanilla-buttermilk cake is doubled up to make a pretty layer cake with orange cream cheese frosting, but it can easily transform into a  sheet cake  or a  tiered beauty  for  other kinds of celebrations .
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by kaitlin wayne 12/31 marjolaine for a birthday cake that’s sure to impress,  dedicate a few hours  to constructing this  french classic .
hazelnut powder and sifted all-purpose flour give the base a buoyant crumb—all the better for layering with nutty meringue, chocolate ganache, and not one, but two buttercreams.
get this recipe photo by chelsea kyle, food styling by kat boytsova 13/31 fancy dirt cake the best birthday cake recipes are unapologetically fun, and this spin on the childhood favorite is no exception.
you can use  chocolate shortbread  or even oreo cookies for the “dirt”; decorate with edible flowers or gummy worms.
get this recipe photo by chelsea kyle, food styling by olivia mack anderson 14/31 orange chiffon cake a citrus-scented spin on a  classic chiffon cake , this recipe uses baking powder and separated eggs, beaten to soft peaks, to yield an airy texture.
the crumb is delicate, so be sure to cool the cake completely before topping it with whipped cream frosting.
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by michelle gatton 15/31 blackberry and chocolate ice cream icebox cake why choose between an  ice cream cake  and a  cookie cake  when you can have both?
this  icebox cake , layered with blackberry jam and crushed chocolate graham crackers, is far easier to put together than it looks.
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by micah marie morton 16/31 tre latte olive oil cake epi editor joe sevier declared this spin on  tres leches  one of  the best desserts he’s ever made .
don’t skip the mascarpone whipped cream on top, which counteracts the sweetness of the sponge with a touch of tang.
get this recipe photo by oriana koren 17/31 chocolate doberge cake recognizable by its seemingly endless layers of chocolate sponge, sandwiched with rich cocoa pudding and german buttercream, this sky-high louisiana classic can be found at parties across the american south.
yes, you’ll need a stand mixer (or a very large bowl) and a whopping 22 eggs (plus two yolks!)
to make it—it’s a true special occasion cake, worth every bit of effort.
get this recipe photo by chelsea kyle, food styling by rhoda boone 18/31 one-bowl milk chocolate cake with chocolate-caramel frosting baked in a 13x9" pan, this cake is perfectly portable: cover the top in plastic or a  baking pan lid  and tote it along to a birthday celebration at the park.
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by lillian chou 19/31 golden beet cake with the best cream cheese frosting imagine the delicate texture and spices of your favorite  carrot cake —but swap carrots for golden beets, mix in sour cherries, cardamom, and fennel seeds, and top it off all with the  dreamiest, silkiest cream cheese frosting  you’ve ever seen.
get this recipe photo by chelsea kyle, food styling by olivia mack anderson 20/31 baked alaska saint pierre why light candles when you can light the whole cake on fire?
frost a dome of ice cream and orange sorbet—set atop a  grand marnier –flavored sponge—with meringue.
once the cake’s assembled, drizzle on more liqueur and (briefly, safely) set the whole thing ablaze.
get this recipe photo by aya brackett 21/31 esterházy schnitten (hazelnut-­vanilla layer cake) vanilla buttercream, toasted hazelnuts, and the faintest hint of coffee make this sophisticated hungarian dessert fit for the grandest occasions.
to gild the lily, dust the top with  cocoa powder  before serving.
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by kaitlin wayne 22/31 gâteau chocolat-menthe (chocolate-mint cake) adapted from a recipe by famed parisian patissier christophe michalak, this dessert features two gently sweetened chocolate cake layers, mint-infused whipped cream, candied mint leaves, and fluffy  chocolate ganache .
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by kaitlin wayne 23/31 marguerite cassis whipped cream flavored with crème de cassis—black currant liqueur found in classic cocktails like the  kir royale —keeps this birthday cake light and airy.
scatter a handful of fresh blackberries or currants on top of the cake for an especially pretty presentation.
get this recipe photo by linda xiao 24/31 crepe cake nothing says “happy birthday” quite like stacks upon stacks of orange-scented crepes layered with  pastry cream  ( it’s easier to make than you might expect ).
the cake requires at least six hours in the fridge to chill, so plan accordingly.
get this recipe photo by joseph de leo, food styling by susan ottaviano and stevie stewart 25/31 original new york cheesecake rich, tangy, and velvety-smooth, a classic new york cheesecake makes an excellent birthday cake.
this version requires only 10 minutes of active time, but at least two hours to cool—proof that great things come to those who wait.
get this recipe photo by justin walker 26/31 ovenly's brooklyn blackout cake a signature of new york city bakery  ovenly , this charcoal-hued blackout cake gets its rich flavor and color from  dutch-process cocoa  and chocolate stout.
get this recipe by holly wulff petersen 27/31 pistachio-cherry cake loaded with fresh cherries and tart sour cream, this cake gains a chewy texture and slightly nutty flavor from ground pistachios in the batter.
it’s equally suited for teatime or dessert.
get this recipe photo by chelsea kyle, food styling by anna stockwell 28/31 strawberry shortcake with thyme and whipped cream give your next summer birthday celebration what it really wants with this thyme-scented layer cake.
fresh strawberries shine here, so be sure to pick the best of the bunch.
get this recipe photo by andrew purcell, prop styling by alex brannian, food styling by carrie purcell 29/31 coconut–key lime sheet cake it’s a good thing this citrusy coconut cake serves a crowd, because we’d be willing to bet the creamy  key lime pie –inspired topping will have your guests coming back for seconds.
pro tip: the lime curd can be made in advance to cut down on pre-party prep time.
get this recipe photo by robert s. cooper 30/31 very red velvet cake with cream cheese icing and pecans while most red velvet cake recipes rely on cocoa powder for flavor, this one forgoes chocolate, resulting in vibrant magenta cake layers.
they’re a striking contrast to swirls of  classic cream cheese frosting .
get this recipe photo by dana gallagher 31/31 sheet-pan lemon poppy seed layer cake no  round cake pans ?
no problem.
bake the cake batter on a sheet tray, cut the sponge into circles, and layer away.
it’s a birthday cake recipe made easy.
get this recipe read more 61 easter desserts, each one better than a chocolate egg no easter basket or pandering to bunnies required.
by  joe sevier 31 bundt cake recipes for beautiful baking without fuss these pretty cakes are low-effort, high-reward.
by  the editors of epicurious 19 lovable loaf cakes for simple snacking these cakes can be fancy enough for a dinner party or low-key enough for anytime nibbling.
by  julia price baron 53 easter cakes full of fresh fruit and pastel charm these seasonal stunners earned the easter bunny’s stamp of approval.
by  zoe denenberg 67 fresh and lively easter dinner ideas these are the easter entrées, side dishes, breads, and salads we turn to year after year.
by  joe sevier 53 bright, festive easter brunch ideas our favorite easter brunch recipes will have everyone hopping out of bed.
by  emily saladino 47 foolproof tips that guarantee better bakes wondering the secret to a perfectly layered cake or how to make your pie crust both flaky and sturdy?
we’ve rounded up our top tips for making all of your desserts and baked goods better.
by  anikah shaokat  what to cook right now make your march better with banana pudding cheesecake bars, cabbage potato pie, and easy crispy-skinned chicken.
by  julia price baron since 1995, epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes.
more from epicurious the epicurious app newsletters subscription faqs prime day connect careers press center advertising masthead contact us accessibility help condé nast store condé nast spotlight do not sell my personal info ©    2023    condé nast.
all rights reserved.
use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     user agreement  and  privacy policy and cookie statement  and  your california privacy rights.
epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our affiliate partnerships with retailers.
the material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of condé nast.
ad choices food innovation group
