skip to main content open navigation menu to revisit this recipe, visit my account, then     view saved recipes .
close alert harry shum jr.’s grocery routine is big on yellowtail collars and mushrooms recipes & menus expert advice ingredients holidays & events my saved recipes more to revisit this recipe, visit my account, then     view saved recipes close alert sign in search recipes & menus expert advice ingredients holidays & events video my saved recipes illustration by li zhang what's in your grocery cart?
harry shum jr.’s grocery routine is big on yellowtail collars and mushrooms the actor loves to go to 99 ranch—and isn't afraid to cook salmon in a film set trailer.
by  anna hezel march 9, 2023 if you’ve seen the 2022 film  everything everywhere all at once , you might remember harry shum jr. as the hibachi chef with the raccoon living under his toque.
but if you catch him off-screen, he’s more likely to be shopping for sugar snap peas for his three-year-old, growing lion’s mane mushrooms on his kitchen counter, or thumping his fist on every  watermelon  at the grocery store to find a ripe one.
i asked shum to share some of his shopping and cooking routine lately, amid acting as dr. benson kwan on the latest season of  grey’s anatomy .
he shared some intel on how to cook  yellowtail collar  in a toaster oven and how to sear a salmon fillet in a trailer on a film set.
i noticed on instagram that  you’re categorized as a grocery store .
if you were a grocery store, what kind of grocery store would you be?
more of an erewhon?
more of a costco?
my favorite thing to go to is a japanese market, like the one in downtown la.
they just have everything.
if you love fish, that is the place to go.
how would you describe the mood of cooking you’ve been into lately?
i’m trying to get better at what my body needs rather than what i feel like eating.
sometimes i’m like, “i just need some really clean kombu soup,” and i can put some vegetables and fish in it.
and other times it’s strictly, how  fast  can i make this meal for the family.
if you like eating fish, the meatiest and quickest and easiest to cook is  yellowtail collar .
it’s so cheap, but it’s also so meaty and so good and flavorful.
that, along with some seaweed and rice and some blue oyster mushrooms with olive oil and salt, thrown into the toaster oven.
it’s just a nice, quick meal that feels good.
are you cooking the collar in the toaster oven too?
yeah.
it’s just salt and pepper and olive oil.
skin side down.
you throw it in for 22 minutes, and then the last 2 minutes, you broil so you get that nice brown on the top.
my daughter who’s three years old loves that, so it’s nice to get her to eat some fish in that way.
what are three things that are perpetually on your grocery list?
you know what i have been using lately?
black garlic.
fermented garlic.
it’s nice and sweet, and it just livens up whatever dish you’re making.
and then sugar snap peas.
my daughter loves to take the peas out and fill it with whatever we have in the dish.
she’ll fill the pod with yellowtail, seaweed, and the rice, and then put the peas back on top as a nice little hors d'oeuvre.
and then mushrooms—any sort of mushroom.
lion’s mane, blue oyster, king oyster.
i’m not a vegetarian or vegan, but there are moments when i just don’t want to eat meat, and it’s nice to have the texture and the benefits of mushrooms.
do you ever get recognized by people at the grocery store?
yeah, i do at times.
i do this whole thing my mother taught me to test out watermelon.
so i’m sitting there doing that, and i look over, and someone’s staring a little too long, and i know that they recognize me while i’m testing out the watermelon to make sure it’s a good one.
i like to jump around though, because when i go to 99 ranch, no one bothers me.
they’re in there to go buy the food and leave.
does your cooking routine change much when you’re in the process of filming?
i had an  induction burner  for emergencies, and then i brought it to my trailer on set, and i have an induction pan.
so i cook the easiest random things.
even potatoes and mushrooms.
we grow a lot of herbs in our backyard and i throw them in there.
i’ve cooked a whole salmon fillet in my trailer, which i’m sure they’re not too happy about.
are there any drinks or snacks you keep in your trailer while you’re filming?
coconut water for sure.
i have my own little coffee maker pour-over in there that i grind.
i don’t really drink cold brew, so i like hot, hot coffee.
those are the two i just have to have—hydration and to be wired up if i need to.
what’s something you’re really good at cooking when you’re almost out of groceries?
i like to make a simple congee with ginger and chicken broth and rice.
and what i’ve been doing lately is sardines.
i cook the sardines with onions and garlic, and throw in whatever else i have.
and then i put it on top with a bunch of different hot sauces.
sardines are just the best go-to.
you can’t go wrong if you make them right.
they’re so flavorful, especially when you combine them with congee.
do you have any cooking goals for this spring?
there’s this  youtuber  that makes these bento boxes for her kid in the morning.
she wakes up at like 5:00 in the morning.
it looks so therapeutic.
i remember when i went to japan, i had a breakfast bento box that had tamago and salmon and rice and miso, and this combination felt like it had everything i needed for the rest of the day.
i would love to do that for friends or family.
more cooking tips from epicurious sign up for our newsletters to get  great new recipes and expert cooking advice .
this 2-ingredient trick  makes sweet potatoes way more luxurious.
how did americans become obsessed with drinking  apple cider vinegar ?
here’s how  you should be storing your hot sauce collection.
stop throwing away your potato peels, and start  adding them to your tacos .
celebrate citrus season with  this sweet cake topper .
browse our favorite  british comfort foods .
tags what's in your grocery cart?
read more ruby tandoh’s grocery strategy involves a lot of gnocchi and the occasional ice cream cake the author and "great british baking show" contestant lets us in on her grocery routine and favorite 3-minute meal.
by  anna hezel for the most succulent fish, cook the collar this ocean-friendly cut is cheaper than fillets—and richer in flavor.
by  katie okamoto molly yeh’s household is fueled by frozen dumplings and lightning-fast rice bowls the author and food network host has her grocery runs down to a science.
by  anna hezel icon 23 gnocchi recipes for pillowy comfort any time these pillowy dumplings can be as dressed up or dressed down as you want.
23 slides by  the editors of epicurious icon 51 mushroom recipes that’ll get more umami into your life give the meatiest vegetable some love with recipes featuring frilly, fragrant fungus.
51 slides by  meredith stettner  and  the editors of epicurious how to make crispy pulled mushrooms and change your vegetarian taco strategy forever these savory, crispy, creamy vegetarian tacos are packed with texture and flavor.
by  andrea aliseda how to tell if you’ve got good eggs or bad how long does an egg last?
longer than you think.
by  carrie dennis have a toaster oven?
then you need an eighth-sheet pan never turn the big oven on again.
by  wilder davies since 1995, epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes.
more from epicurious the epicurious app newsletters subscription faqs prime day connect careers press center advertising masthead contact us accessibility help condé nast store condé nast spotlight do not sell my personal info ©    2023    condé nast.
all rights reserved.
use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     user agreement  and  privacy policy and cookie statement  and  your california privacy rights.
epicurious  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our affiliate partnerships with retailers.
the material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of condé nast.
ad choices food innovation group
