Hello friends!
Today, I’m sharing my recipe for chicken meatballs with cream sauce. It’s a delicious dish that can be prepared in a short amount of time. Original recipe
Ingredients

700 g ground chicken
50 g white bread (crumb)
50 ml milk
120 g onion (1 medium onion)
1 tsp salt (6 g)
1/2 tsp black pepper (1.5 g)
1/2 tsp oregano
50 g butter
100 ml 20% cream
100 ml chicken broth
3-4 tbsp sunflower oil (for frying)

Cooking process

Finely chop the onion.
Heat a frying pan, add 1 tbsp sunflower oil and put the finely chopped onion here.
Fry until soft, stirring so it doesn’t burn. Over medium heat.
Crumble the white bread and pour in 50 ml of milk, let it stand for 5-7 minutes to soak well.
Put the ground meat in a bowl where we will knead it, make a recess and put the onion there, add the bread with the milk. Instead of ground meat, you can take chicken breast and finely chop it. As I usually do.
Add salt, pepper. You can also add various spices, such as turmeric, oregano, etc. I don’t add them to this recipe.
Mix the meat mixture thoroughly.
The amount of meat and other ingredients is not just for nothing) I make meatballs of approximately 80 grams each, 12 pieces in total, and that’s exactly how many fit in a 32 cm diameter frying pan.
Divide the meat mixture into equal pieces, make balls out of them. Do not roll them too hard, so they don’t become too dense inside.
Heat the same frying pan where you fried the onion. Add all the sunflower oil, 2-3 tbsp.
Add 50 g of butter to the same frying pan.
As soon as the butter melts and starts sizzling, place our meatballs in the frying pan.
Put them on the edges of the pan, the center will come in handy.
Fry until golden brown (usually 2-3 minutes) on one side, turn over to the other. All this is done over high heat.
Fry for a couple of minutes, make sure that a crust has formed on the other side as well, reduce the heat to medium.
In the center of the pan, sprinkle 1/2 teaspoon of oregano, mix, let the aroma develop.
Pour 100 ml of broth into a pan, you can use ready-made broths, but you need to carefully look at their composition (how much salt, spices, etc.).
Add cream.
Stir the resulting sauce in the middle of the pan.
Cook for another 7-8 minutes and turn off.
The dish is ready.

And that’s the whole recipe!
Cook with pleasure!
