Recipe here originally: My Dad’s West Virginia Style Hot Dog Sauce
Servings: 8–10 | Cook time: 1 hour 10 minutes
Ingredients

1½ pounds 85/15 ground beef
14.5-ounce can beef broth
1 yellow onion, peeled and finely diced
1 hot pepper, such as jalapeño or cherry pepper, trimmed and finely minced
1 small red bell pepper, trimmed, seeded, and finely diced
7-ounce can tomato paste
1–2 tablespoons chili powder
2 teaspoons cumin
2 teaspoons garlic powder
2 teaspoons paprika
½ teaspoon cayenne powder, more or less to taste
½ teaspoon turmeric
12-ounce jar Heinz chili sauce or use ½ cup ketchup
Salt, pepper, and sugar if needed

Brown the beef:

Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat. Once hot, add the ground beef and cook, breaking it up with a wooden spoon for 15–20 minutes until browned and cooked through. Season with salt and pepper.
Transfer the cooked beef to a paper towel-lined plate and discard all but 2 teaspoons of fat in the skillet.

Cook the onion and peppers:

Return the skillet to the stove over medium heat. Add the onion and both diced peppers and cook until softened, about 5–7 minutes. Season lightly with salt and pepper.
Add the chili powder, cumin, garlic powder, cayenne powder, paprika, and turmeric. Cook for 1 minute until fragrant. Add the tomato paste and mash it into the skillet. Cook for 1–3 minutes until it deepens in color.
Return the beef to the pot and toss to combine.

Simmer the hot dog sauce:

Pour in the beef broth and add the chili sauce. Taste and add more salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar if needed. Bring to a boil and then reduce heat and simmer for at least 30 minutes until thick.
Stir the hot dog sauce occasionally as it cooks. If the liquid evaporates too quickly, add a splash or two of water.
If the hot dog sauce is too thin, turn the heat up a touch and continue simmering until the liquid evaporates.
Taste and season once more before serving.

To serve:

Serve the hot dog sauce on top of your favorite hot dog. Be sure to warm the buns first! I like to microwave them so they’re soft, but toast or grill them if you prefer. Serve with ketchup, mustard, and finely minced yellow onion on top. Enjoy!

