INGREDIENTS
For the Filling

1.25 pounds chicken breasts precooked and shredded
2 tablespoons canola oil or olive oil
1 small onion finely diced
3 cloves garlic smashed and finely diced
1 small jalapeno finely diced (ribs and seeds removed)
8 ounces cream cheese
½ cup heavy cream
1 teaspoon paprika
½ teaspoon salt or to taste
¼ teaspoon black pepper

For the Topping (White Sauce)

2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons flour
2 cups chicken broth
½ cup heavy cream
1 cup Mexican cheese blend
½ teaspoon salt

For the Assembly and Serving

12 corn tortillas or flour tortillas (may need more than 12 depending on how much filling you have)
1 ½ cups Mexican cheese blend
Cilantro chopped (optional for topping)
Picante or hot sauce (optional for serving)

INSTRUCTIONS
To Prepare the Tortillas

Preheat your oven to 350 degrees and grease a 9x13 casserole dish with cooking spray or a small amount of oil just before you are about to begin preparing the filling.
If using corn tortillas, be sure to warm them up so they are pliable and don't break when you roll them.

To Prepare the Filling

For the filling, using a large saute pan, heat the onion in canola oil on medium heat until fragrant and translucent, about 3 or 4 minutes
Add the diced jalapeno peppers and garlic and cook until softened, about 2 more minutes.
Add the cream cheese, press down to combine, and continue cooking and stirring until the cheese is softened and incorporated into the vegetable mixture.
Add the ½ cup of the heavy cream to mixture and continue to cook for 2 to 3 minutesSeason the mixture with paprika, salt, and pepper.
Remove the cream cheese/vegetable mixture from the stove and fold it into the shredded chicken. Check seasoning (salt and pepper).

To Assemble the Enchiladas and Make the Sauce

Spoon the chicken mixture evenly along the center of each of the corn tortillas and top with some shredded Mexican cheese blend prior to rolling (about ½ cup for all).
Roll each enchilada, and place them seam side down into a prepared baking casserole.
To make the sauce, melt 2 tablespoons of butter in a saute pan and add 2 tablespoons of flour to make a roux and cook until the roux is very light tan.
Add 2 cups of chicken broth gradually while whisking very well to break up lumps and make it smooth.
Add ½ cup of heavy cream followed by 1 cup of shredded Mexican cheese blend and continue heating on low to medium until the cheese is melted.
Check salt and pepper and adjust if necessary.
Pour the sauce mixture over the enchiladas and top with more cheese.

To Bake and Serve the Enchiladas

Bake in the center of the oven until heated through and bubbly at 350 degrees, about 30 minutes.
Top with chopped fresh cilantro and serve with picante or hot sauce - enjoy!

Original recipe here
