Saffron Cod and Orzo with Guanciale Chili Oil Ingredients:
    Frizzled leeks:
    1 leek, white and light green parts only, scrubbed and rinsed
    Vegetable oil
    Guanciale chili oil:
    4 ounces guanciale, bacon, or pancetta; small-diced
    1 small shallot, peeled and finely diced
    1 clove garlic, peeled and minced
    1 teaspoon crushed red pepper, plus more to taste
    ¼ cup extra virgin olive oil
    ¼ cup chili oil
    1–2 teaspoons maple syrup
    Pinch of salt, if needed
    Saffron cod and orzo:
    Pinch of saffron, lightly crushed
    2 tablespoons hot water
    6 4-ounce portions of cod
    1 fennel bulb with stalks; bulb cored and thinly sliced, stalks trimmed and thinly sliced into rounds, fronds reserved for garnish
    1 shallot, peeled and sliced lengthwise into thin wedges
    4 cloves garlic, peeled and minced
    2 tablespoons butter
    16 ounces orzo
    5½ cups water or vegetable broth
    1 teaspoon extra virgin olive oil
    1 lemon, juiced
    ¼ cup loosely packed parsley, minced
    Salt and pepper to taste

Saffron Cod and Orzo with Guanciale Chili Oil Instructions:
    Before beginning, prepare the leek as it takes the most time. Halve the leek lengthwise and very thinly slice both halves into 1/8-inch wide slivers. You may need to separate some of the layers of the leek and slice each layer separately. If you find bits of dirt deep within the leek, don’t fret. You can place all the leek slivers in a sieve and rinse again once more to remove any stubborn flecks of dirt.
    Transfer the sliced leek to a paper towel-lined plate and pat dry to remove any excess water.
    Place the crushed saffron in a small bowl and cover it with 2 tablespoons of hot water. Set aside.
    Place the guanciale in a large pot (you’ll use this pot later for the orzo and cod!) and turn the heat to medium. Cook, turning occasionally, for 8–10 minutes until the fat renders and the guanciale becomes crispy.
    Add the shallot, garlic, and crushed red pepper and cook for an additional 3 minutes, turning often and adjusting the heat as needed to prevent the garlic from browning. Once the shallot softens, and the garlic takes on a very light golden color, spoon the mixture into a bowl. Scoop out all but a tablespoon of the fat from the pot and add it to the bowl of guanciale.
    Pour the extra virgin olive oil, chili oil, and maple syrup over the guanciale. Stir vigorously to combine. Taste and adjust the seasonings to your preference. Add more maple syrup, chili oil, or crushed red pepper, depending on your preferences.
    The guanciale oil will keep in an airtight jar for up to 5 days.
    Prepare the saffron cod and orzo:
    Pat the cod dry and season all over with salt and pepper.
    Return the pot of remaining guanciale fat to medium heat. Add the sliced fennel bulb and stalks along with the sliced shallot. Season with salt and cook for 5–6 minutes until the fennel begins to soften.
    Add the garlic and cook for 1–2 minutes until just fragrant.
    Melt the butter into the pot and add the orzo. Stir to coat and cook for 1–2 minutes until it begins to lightly toast. Season with salt.
    Pour in the water or broth and bring to a boil for 2–3 minutes. Stir often to lift up any orzo that may have stuck to the bottom.
    Reduce heat to low and arrange the cod on top. Drizzle with 1 teaspoon of extra virgin olive oil. Drizzle the steeped saffron mixture all over, ensuring that each piece of cod gets a little bit of saffron water.
    Cover and simmer over low heat for 12–15 minutes or until the cod is opaque and the orzo is tender.
    Use a saucepan that has somewhat high sides. Generally, you want a saucepan that’s at least 6–8 inches deep. When you add the leeks to the hot oil, the oil will foam up vigorously, and you do NOT want it pouring over the edges.
    As the cod simmers, make the leeks. In a saucepan, pour in 2 inches of vegetable oil. Turn the heat to medium-high. Break off a piece of leek and add it to the pot; if it bubbles rapidly, it’s ready to fry.
    Working in small batches, add a handful of the leeks at a time to the oil. Stir occasionally and fry for 15–20 seconds until golden brown. Remove and–using tongs–transfer to a paper towel-lined plate. Continue on until all the leeks are fried. Pat any excess oil off from the tops of the leeks with a paper towel and season with flaky sea salt. Set aside.
    Spoon the cooked orzo into shallow bowls and place a piece of cod on top. Arrange the frizzled leeks next to the cod and drizzle with the guanciale chili oil. Sprinkle a few bits of fennel fronds on top if you remember (unlike me…). Enjoy!

